I can't really express in words what you mean to me. To me you are my world; to me you are my everything. I just want to tell you one thing. I truly love you from my heart and soul. You know what; in my life you play the most important role. I may not tell you every day that you are my life. But, today I want to tell you that I love you lots and lots. My dear if I ever get a chance to choose my next birth, then I would ask God that I wanna be yours again and forever. I love you so much and I mean it.

From the first sun rise of the day to the last light of the moon, I remember you each minute and each moment of my life. There has not been a single day when I haven't missed you much. I wonder if you were not there in my life, what I would do. I would really not be the same person as I am today. You have given me the true meaning of survival and I really mean that. I just wanna thank you for coming in my life and making my life so beautiful. I just want to tell you that I love you.

Love has no reason, nor has it any season. When you love someone, you do it from your heart. When you love someone you do it from your soul. Such is my love for you my dear. I truly loved you yesterday. I love you more today. And I shall love you tomorrow and till the end of time. You are the only reason why I feel so blessed in life. You are my strength and my determination. I am really proud of you and lucky to have you. I love you so much.

Reading this letter, you might be wondering what's wrong with me, why I am writing a letter to you. But, don't get surprised, I wanted to confess something. I may not verbally tell you that I love you so much. But, I can at least express it through my words. You changed my life completely and gave a new meaning to my life. I can't imagine a day without you. You know what I am really lucky that you came in my life. I love you so much and will always do.

If I don't see your face, I don't feel good. If I don't hear your voice, I feel something is incomplete. If I don't miss you, my day never ends. I think I have started loving you more than me. And, this happens rarely, it's for you to see. I love you so much my dear. My love for you will never end. Yours forever and till the end of time!

Days are not the same without you and nights are so dull. Baby! You mean the world to me, and I mean it for sure. You have become an important part of my life. No, actually you have become my life. I just want to say that I am so lucky to have you in my life. And, I love you from my heart And I wish that we never part. Love you!

I don't remember from when, but since the time you are with me is the time I have loved you to thee. Your presence gives me a positive vibe, a vibe that makes me feel so happy. A vibe that makes all the difference in my life! My life wouldn't have been the same without you, and you are the reason of my smile and through. Baby I truly love you!

I don't know how to tell you, I don't know how to express it through! But, I just wish to say that you have a huge role in my life. In shaping me up, In supporting me and loving me in every which way. I don't say it, but from my heart, I mean a lot. You are and will remain the top priority in my Life, because I love you a lot my dear. Only yours!

Things do change in life and feelings also change. My love for you has been and will remain the same. Yes! I mean it from my heart. You are the passion of my life, and no one can ever forget passion. You are the light which light up the dullest days of my life. Baby, I just want to tell you that you are my world and my life. Love you a lot!

I won't tell you in words, but you understand everything that I don't say. How do you know that you mean so much to me? The love that I see in your eyes is something else. The feelings that I see in your eyes makes me love you even more. Baby I am so lucky to have you besides me because I Love you and because I love you to the core. Only yours!

Love cannot change you but can surely change something in you. Like, you did for me. I was not like this before as I am in your company now. You have been really a great support and anchor of my life. Your love gives me a sense and stability to willingly survive. I love you is all I want to say from my heart, and I really mean it my love. I love you!

Love is like the sweetest emotion of life. And, loving you has made me felt this sweet emotion. Your love takes me to some other world. Where I am not me. Actually, your love is like an ecstasy, where you would be the queen of my heart. Your love is a spice of my life. And I just love you the way you are.

Hey! You are so lovely, that I can't spend a single day without your company. Baby! You bring lots of happiness in my life along with thousand smiles. Your way of things makes me realize that I am so lucky to have you in my life. Can't stay a moment now without you. Let us take the plunge and be one forever in life. I truly love you!