Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOAD
 SIGN UP | LOG IN
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "A History of Palestine, 634-1099"
See other formats
* 




•* V- 





-* S J I 


u> t 



A 


HISTORY OF 
PALESTINE 
6 34-i°99 







t 4 




* 


m '■ 

uirltt&Mii 


r< 


A 




MOSHE GIL 
















This is the first comprehensive history of Palestine from the Muslim 
conquest in 634 to that of the Crusaders in 1099. It is a translation and 
revised version of volume I of Palestine during the first Muslim period which 
was published in Hebrew in 1983 and presents an authoritative survey of 
the early mediaeval Islamic and Jewish worlds. 

Professor Gil begins by reviewing the political and military events in 
Palestine before and after the Arab invasion. Later chapters explore the 
Abbasid, Tulunid, Ikhshidid and Fatimid periods, during which time 
Palestine was an almost perpetual battlefield for states, armies and 
factions. 

Against this backdrop of conflict and administrative changes, the author 
portrays the everyday life of Palestine and its inhabitants. He looks at the 
economic history of Palestine - its agriculture, transport facilities, exports 
and systems of taxation — as well as the religious status of Jerusalem, the 
nature of Islam’s tolerance towards Jews and Christians and the status, 
leadership and customs of the Christian populace. Specific attention is paid 
to the history of Palestinianjews under Muslim rule. Professor Gil details 
their topography, economic activities and religious life; he explores the 
Karaite and Samaritan communities and discusses the role of the most 
prominent Jewish institution, the yeshiva. 

A history of Palestine, 634-1099 is based on an impressive array of 
sources. Professor Gil has carefully read the more than 1,000 documents of 
the Cairo Geniza collection and these are paralleled by Arabic, Syriac, 
Latin and Greek material. This monumental study will be read by students 
and specialists of mediaeval Islamic and Jewish history and religious 
studies and by anyone interested in the history of the Holy Land. 




A history of Palestine, 634—1099 




A history of Palestine, 634-1099 

Moshe Gil 


Translated from the Hebrew by Ethel Broido 


lgg Cambridge 

UNIVERSITY PRESS 



Published by the Press Syndicate of the University of Cambridge 
The Pitt Building, Trumpington Street, Cambridge CB2 1RP 
40 West 20th Street, New York, NY 10011-4211, USA 
10 Stamford Road, Oakleigh, Melbourne 3166, Australia 

This is a revised edition of Palestine During the First Muslim Period (634—1099) 

Originally published in Hebrew by Tel Aviv University in 1983 

First published by Cambridge University Press, 1992 
as A history of Palestine, 634—1099 

English translation © Cambridge University Press, 1992 

First paperback edition published 1997 

Photoset and Printed in Great Britain by Redwood Books, Trowbridge 

This book was published with the assistance of grants from the following: 
The Memorial Foundation for Jewish Culture, the Louis and Minna Epstein 
Fund of the American Academy for Jewish Research, and the Taylor-Schechter 
Geniza Research Unit, University of Cambridge 

British Library cataloguing in publication data 
Gil, Moshe 

A history of Palestine, 634—1099. 

1. Palestine, 640—1917 
I. Title 
956.9403 

Library of Congress cataloguing in publication data 
Gil, Moshe, 1921- 

[Erets-Yisra‘el ba-tekufah ha-Muslemit ha-rishonah (634—1099), 1, Iyunim 
historiyim. English] 

A history of Palestine, 634—1099 / Moshe Gil. 
p. cm. 

Translation of v. 1 of: Erets-Yisra‘el ba-tekufah ha-Muslemit ha-rishonah 

(634-1099). 

Includes bibliographical references and index. 

ISBN 0 521 40437 1 (hardcover) 

1. Palestine — History — 638—1917. 2. Islam — Palestine — History. 3. Jews — 
Palestine — History. I. Title 
DS 124.G5513 1992 
956.94'03 - dc20 90-20807 CIP 

ISBN 0 521 40437 1 hardback 
ISBN 0 521 59948 9 paperback 


RB 



Contents 

W 


Preface page xiii 

Abbreviations xxi 

Glossary of Hebrew and Arabic terms xxv 

Introduction 1 

1 The conquest 11 

Muhammad and the vision of the conquest 11 

The causes of the Great Jihad 12 

The tribes and the population of Palestine 16 

The first incursions; Dhat Adah, Mu’ta 21 

Muhammad and the Palestinian tribes 24 

Dhat al-Salasil 25 

Tabuk 26 

The treaties with towns in the south of Palestine 28 

The expedition of Usama b. Zayd 31 

The great invasion 32 

The expedition of ‘Amr ibn al-‘As 38 

The expedition of Khalid ibn al-Walid 40 

Ijnadayn 41 

Additional conquests 43 

The battle of the Yarmuk 45 

The dismissal of Khalid ibn al-Walid 48 

The capitulation ofjerusalem 51 

The completion of the conquest 57 

The attitude of the population towards the conqueror 60 

The episode of the Temple Mount and the return 

of the Jews to Jerusalem 65 

2 Islam strikes roots 75 

Events in Palestine to the end of Umayyad rule 75 

Natural disasters 89 

vii 



CONTENTS 


The religious status of Jerusalem 90 

The achievements of the Umayyads 104 

The administrative division 110 

Muslim personalities in the Umayyad period 114 

The tribes 130 

3 The local population and the Muslims 139 

The protected people 140 

The taxes 143 

The responsibility for.the life of the dhimrnl 158 

Dress regulations 158 

Freedom of worship and its limitations 160 

Professions and offices 161 

Matters of inheritance; Muslim courts 163 

The population and localities 169 

4 The economy 224 

Land and agriculture 224 

Occupations 229 

Book production 232 

Exports 236 

Internal trade 241 

Imports 242 

The representative of the merchants 248 

Seafaring 249 

Commercial methods 252 

Measures and coins 257 

The Maghribis 260 

The economy of Jerusalem 277 

5 Palestine from the beginning of Abbasid rule to the 

Fatimids 279 

From the revolution to al-Ma’mun 279 

The days of al-Ma’mun and his successors 294 

The Abbasid caliphs and Jerusalem 297 

The sixties of the ninth century 299 

More about Muslim personalities during the Abbasid period 301 
The period of the Tulunids 306 

The Isma’IlIs: Qarmatls and Fatimids 310 

The Invasion of Tiberias by the Qarmatls and the 

return of the Abbasids 312 , 

The Ikhshidids 316 

Muslim personalities in Palestine during 

the period of the Tulunids and Ikhshidids 328 

viii 



CONTENTS 


6 The Fatimid conquest: the war of sixty years 

and other events during the eleventh century 335 

Fatimid advance northwards (a) 335 

Fatimid retreat (a) 337 

Fatimid advance northwards (b) 339 

Ya'qub ibn Killis 340 

Fatimid retreat (b) 342 

Fatimid advance northwards (c) 343 

Fatimid retreat (c) 343 

Renewal of the Byzantine offensive 344 

Fatimid advance northwards (d) 348 

Fatimid retreat (d) 349 

Fatimid advance northwards (e) 350 

The attitude of the Muslims in Palestine towards the Fatimids 352 
Events of the year 979 354 

The episode of al-Qassam 355 

Events in Palestine 981-983 358 

Jewish personalities in the Fatimid administration: 

Manasseh b. Abraham al-Qazzaz; Palti’el 359 

The episode of Bakjur, 983-988 364 

The events of 996-997; internal war in Palestine 366 

The cruelties of al-Hakim 370 

First war of thejarrahids (1011-1014) 381 

Second war of the Jarrahids (1024—1029) 385 

Forty years of Fatimid rule 397 

The invasion of the Turcomans 409 

The situation in Palestine during Turcoman rule 414 

Events in Tyre 418 

Brief chronological summary 420 

Muslim personalities during the last generations 

of the period 421 

7 The Christians 430 

The Christian leadership after the conquest 430 

Christendom in Jerusalem 435 

Christianity in other Palestinian localities 442 

Christian sects 447 

The patriarchs and other personalities in 

the Church ofjerusalem 454 

Ritual and customs 464 

The authorities and the Christians 469 


IX 



CONTENTS 

Aid and reconstruction 478 

Christian pilgrimage 482 

8 The Jewish population and its leadership 490 

The problematics of Jewish leadership in 

the Middle Ages 490 

The Palestinian yeshiva in ancient sources 495 

Palestinian customs 501 

The organisation of the yeshiva and its titles 505 

The status of the yeshiva and its prerogatives 508 

Peace-making 511 

The judicial prerogative 516 

Excommunication 522 

Aid for individuals 525 

‘Palestinians’ versus ‘Babylonians’ 527 

The exilarchs 540 

Relations between the Palestinian yeshiva and the 

communities in Palestine and the diaspora 545 

The Jewish leadership and the Fatimid authorities 549 

Calendrical matters 562 

Yeshiva and community 569 

Communal leaders in close contact with the yeshiva 575 

The negtdtm 595 

Aid for the yeshiva and the Jewish population 

ofjerusalem 601 

‘Aliya (immigration to Palestine) and pilgrimage 609 

Burial in Palestine 631 

The Jewish quarters ofjerusalem 635 

The geonim of Palestine 653 

The affair of David b. Daniel 750 

The yeshiva, last pages 774 

9 Karaites and Samaritans 777 

The house of ‘Anan and the beginning of Karaism 777 

Karaism in Palestine in the tenth century 784 

The Karaite nesi’tm 790 

Beliefs and opinions 794 

The social structure of the Karaites 807 

The Karaites and their leaders in the 

eleventh century 809 

The Samaritans 820 


x 



CONTENTS 


10 The Crusaders’ conquest and the fate of 


Palestinian Jewry 

826 

Chronology 

839 

Bibliographical index 

862 

General index 

912 


xi 




Preface 


These studies are based mainly on the sources left to us by the three 
communities living in Palestine between the Arab conquest and the Cru¬ 
sades: the Jews, the Christians, and the Muslims. Among the Jewish 
sources, the Cairo Geniza documents occupy first place, owing to both 
their quantity and their authenticity, for these were actually written by 
contemporaries of the period, some of whom played important roles in 
the events I am dealing with. These documents, referred to in this book as 
‘my collection’, are printed in two additional Hebrew volumes, in their 
Judaeo-Arabic original, with translations into Hebrew and commentaries. 
The reader who wishes to examine these original texts and is familiar with 
Hebrew and Arabic, will find them in vols. II and III of my Eres isra’el 
ba-tequja ha-muslimit ha-ri’shdna. Accordingly, references are made in the 
present book to the ‘Hebrew Index’ of those volumes, by which the 
indexes at the end of vol. Ill of my above-mentioned book are meant. A 
supplement to these volumes was published in Te'uda, vol. 7 (1991), 
containing twenty-five additional texts. In the footnotes of the present 
book, references to these Geniza documents are indicated by numbers in 
boldface type, using the same numbers as those of the documents in the 
above-mentioned collection. In referring to the supplement in Te‘uda, the 
number is accompanied by the letter a or b, also in boldface. My collection 
comprises 643 documents in all. More than a third were edited earlier in 
their entirety and 43 in part. 

The text of the present volume is arranged by numbered sections, each 
consisting of one or more paragraphs. The reader will find that footnotes 
generally correspond to entire sections rather than to smaller pieces of 
text. Entries in the bibliographical and general indexes refer to section 
numbers rather than page numbers. 

A detailed description of the Cairo Geniza can be found in the first 
volume of Goitein’s A Mediterranean Society. I have read most of the Geniza 

xiii 



PREFACE 


documents in my collection in the original but was unable to do so in a few 
instances, such as those located in the USSR and some of those kept in the 
Dropsie University Library in Philadelphia. Many of these manuscripts 
were examined by me by means of ultra-violet rays and with the aid of 
special photographic facilities. 

The Muslim sources of the Middle Ages are first and foremost the 
chronicles; following them are the biographies, geographical literature, 
monographs, and so on. I also used many texts which are still in manu¬ 
script form. The interested reader may find details concerning these 
Arabic texts in the bibliographical index at the end of this book, and 
further information regarding the authors and their works is available in 
the well-known books by Brockelmann and Sezgin, which deal with the 
history of Arabic literature. Most of the information on political and 
military events, as well as on Muslim personalities of the period who lived 
in Palestine, is derived from these Arabic sources, whereas the chapters on 
the localities, the conditions of the dhimmis (especially on the subject of 
taxes) and on the economic life of the period, are based to a large extent on 
information culled from Geniza documents. 

As to the Christian sources, these include Byzantine writers, especially 
Theophanes, and Syriac literature (i.e. Christian Aramaic), which con¬ 
tributed its share on some vital points in the description of the political and 
military events. The Arabic writings of Christian chroniclers, especially 
Sa‘id ibn Bitrlq and Yahya ibn Sa‘Id, are important from both the overall 
historical point of view and that of the history of the Christians in Pal¬ 
estine. The Greek sources of the Jerusalem Church, especially those com¬ 
piled by Papadopoulos-Kerameos, provide the information (which I 
regret is rather poor) on the history of the Church and the Christians in 
Palestine during this period. The reader will undoubtedly note that these 
historical studies are mostly discussions focusing on the sources at the 
researcher’s disposal. This applies to any period or subject dating from 
antiquity or the Middle Ages, for the student cannot presume that he is 
presenting a complete or continuous history, as it is obvious that wherever 
there is an absence of sources, there will be a void. 

Research literature on Palestine - including the period under discussion 
- is very rich, but it is not the purpose of this book to serve as a biblio¬ 
graphical guide. In the following studies, I have made a point of referring 
to those research works which provide essential explanations and mean¬ 
ingful opinions. Complete details on these sources can be found in the 
bibliographical index. There have been attempts in the past to sum up the 
historical information on the period, such as M. Assafs book on the 
history of Arab rule in Palestine, and Goitein’s article on Jerusalem during 
the Arab period. Among the more specific studies, there are those of 


xiv 



PREFACE 


De Goeje (the Memoire) and of Caetani (Annali) on the Arab conquest. The 
papyri of Nessana, published by Kraemer, shed additional and significant 
light on the early Muslim period, and the works of Lammens and Shaban 
on the early caliphs are also worthy of mention. 

In the area dealing with geography, Le Strange and the collection of 
sources in his Palestine under the Moslems are considerably helpful, as are 
Avi Yonah’s work on the geographical history of Palestine, Dussaud on 
the topography of Syria, and the encyclopaedic enterprise of Z. Vilnay 
(Ariel). 

In the context of the study on the status of the dhimmis, the comprehen¬ 
sive article of Ashtor (Strauss) in the Hirschler Jubilee Volume should be 
mentioned, as well as Tritton’s work. With regard to having recourse to 
the Muslim courts, one should mention, in particular, the pioneering 
work of J. Mann, within the framework of his series of articles on the 
Responsa of the Geonim, in addition to the works of Hirschberg and 
Goitein. The study on the masoretes ofTiberias is, to a large extent, based 
on the works of earlier students: Mann, Kahle, Klar, Dotan and others. 
Referring to the studies on the localities of Palestine, one should naturally 
mention the work of Braslavi and Sharon. 

In the chapter dealing with economics, one should take note of the 
works of Cahen on matters of landed property in early Islam and of the 
extensive work of Goitein, A Mediterranean Society, which sums up the 
economic data contained in the Geniza. As to the identification of plants 
and condiments, I relied on the works of Meyerhof (the editor ofMaimo- 
nides’ book on medicines), Ducros, and of Zohary. With regard to tex¬ 
tiles, the work of Serjeant should be noted. In the new book by Lombard 
on textiles in the Muslim world, the reader will find additional material 
which I have used here only minimally. 

In the episode concerning Charlemagne and his connections with the 
caliph of Baghdad and with the Christians in Jerusalem, I had extensive 
research literature at my disposal which I have documented in chapter 5, 
note 13. As to Egyptian rule in Palestine, from Tulunid times until the end 
of the period being described here, the books by Wustenfeld and Lane 
Poole are still authoritative on the subject, helping and serving as a serious 
basis for research into the events, though they do not go into detail 
concerning what was happening in Palestine. For enquiry into the Isma'IlIs 
- the Qarmatls and the Fatimids - the studies of Ivanow, B. Lewis and 
Madelung, are important. Attention should also be drawn to the recent 
works of Bacharach in the field of monetary history and the history of the 
Ikhshldids. Particular importance can be ascribed to the profound studies 
of Canard and especially his book on the Hamdanid dynasty and his 


xv 



PREFACE 


articles on the Fatimids. The works of Wiet and the recent work of 
Bianquis also merit attention. 

On questions concerning the Christians in Jerusalem, the works of 
Riant are worth mentioning: the methodical listing of sources dealing with 
the Crusaders, in which there is also a section on the period preceding the 
Crusades, and his research on the donation of property to the Holy 
Sepulchre; Vailhe, and especially his articles on the monastery of Mar Saba 
and on the graptoi brothers; also Pargoire, in his book on the Byzantine 
Church; Janin, and his essay on the Georgian Church in Jerusalem and a 
number of Jerusalem patriarchs; Amann, for his exhaustive article on the 
Jerusalem Church; Peeters and his articles on the Persian conquest, some 
of the important sources he edited and his book on the Oriental back¬ 
ground to Byzantine hagiography; Leclercq, for his articles on holy places 
in Palestine, as well as his comprehensive article on Palestine. 

It is now over a century since the finest students ofjewish history began 
probing into the Geniza documents. Were it not for these documents and 
the dedicated work of these researchers, we would know very little about 
the Jews of Palestine during this period. Foremost among them was 
A. Harkavy, with his notes and additions to Graetz, the Geniza sources 
which he edited in various places, and his outstanding contribution to the 
research on Karaism. Also A. Neubauer, with the sources he edited, 
particularly the Scroll of Ahima'as. Similarly notable is his Catalogue of 
Hebrew Manuscripts in Oxford, which served as a guide to researchers, as 
did the Catalogue of the British Museum, published by G. Margoliouth. 
These were followed by S. Poznanski in his many articles, notably those 
on the Karaites and the Geonim of Palestine. S. Schechter, who rescued 
the Geniza, edited important texts from Palestine or relating to Palestine, 
in his Saadyana and elsewhere. H. J. Bornstein brilliantly collected the 
information available on the dispute of the calendar between Babylonia 
and Palestine in his articles and edited related fragments from the Geniza. 
R. Gottheil, who at the beginning of the century had already begun to deal 
with texts from the Geniza, collaborated with W. H. Worrell in 1927 to 
edit the collection of Geniza documents kept in the Freer Gallery in 
Washington. H. Hirschfeld edited Geniza documents, his major contri¬ 
bution being studies on a number of Karaite personalities. In the 
mid-1920s, Jacob Mann, the most important student of the Geniza in his 
time, began to publish his studies. Apart from his many articles, he 
compiled two volumes of extensive material from the Geniza pertaining to 
Palestine, accompanied by profound historical studies. The majority of 
those documents in my collection which were edited previously were 
mainly edited by Mann. Until today, his works form a firm basis for 
any additional research on the subject. A contemporary of Mann was 


xvi 



PREFACE 


A. Marmorstein, who dealt mainly with the history of the Gaonate in 
Palestine and also edited documentary material from the Geniza, although 
unfortunately there were considerable misinterpretations and impre- 
cisions in his work, which to a large extent justified the sharp criticism 
which came from the pen of Jacob Mann. 

At the same time as Mann, S. Assaf was extensively editing Geniza 
documents, among them texts relating to Palestine, and one must note in 
particular the various kinds of deeds and letters which he included in his 
writings. In the framework of his articles, he also edited documents 
written in Arabic, whereas the scientific work this involved - that is, the 
deciphering and translation - was done by his colleagues at the Hebrew 
University, Baneth and Ashtor. The American Jewish scholar J. Starr, 
who died at an early age and was known primarily for his research on 
Byzantine Jewry, edited in 1936 a number of letters of the Maghribi Israel 
b. Nathan (Sahlun). E. Ashtor (having earlier published under the name of 
Strauss) worked mainly on Geniza texts touching on Egypt, but also 
included a number of documents from Palestine in his writings, where one 
can find important material pertaining to the history of Palestine and its 
Jewish population during the period under discussion. Mention should 
also be made of B. Chapira, who edited documents from Palestine in some 
of his articles in Hebrew and French. S. M. Stern, an important scholar of 
Islamic culture, contributed a notable article to this special field of re¬ 
search, in which he edited texts dealing with the dispute of Nathan b. 
Abraham, 

Since the 1950s, the foremost among the scholars of our day has been 
S. D. Goitein. As is evident from the list of works included in the 
bibliographical index, he studied various aspects of the subject under 
discussion here. He identified many texts relating to Palestine, and 
although he did not edit them all, he dealt with them in his many writings. 
Paramount in importance are the volumes of his Mediterranean Society and 
a collection of merchants’ letters. He was the first of the Geniza students to 
base his studies on a large number of the Geniza documents written in 
Arabic, either in Hebrew or Arabic script (the latter being generally 
extremely difficult to decipher). He was also the first to organise the 
Geniza documents into coherent groups according to their writers, paving 
the way for continuous and systematic research of the documentary 
material in the Geniza. The significant systematic research work he carried 
out for many years on the history of thejewish population in Palestine on 
the basis of the Geniza documents, a work which was dispersed and 
housed in innumerable places, is now assembled in a comprehensive 
collection, Ha-yishuv .. . Among his students, one should note J. Eliash, 
who in 1957/8 edited some important documents from Palestine; 

xvii 



PREFACE 


N. Golb, who dealt mainly with Egypt, though his works serve to clarify 
details in letters from Palestine; M. A. Friedman, who in his articles and 
his great book on the Palestinian marriage deeds revealed their 
peculiarities and continuity, discussing in great detail the various terms, as 
well as places and personalities in Palestine, mentioned in those marriage 
deeds; and M. R, Cohen, who published some important articles on 
Ascalon, on aspects of the negidut (including information relating to Pal¬ 
estine), on the dispute of Nathan b. Abraham (including a Geniza letter 
which sheds light on the affair), and also a comprehensive book onjewish 
self-government in Egypt, with a discussion cn several important topics 
relating to Jewish personalities in Palestine shortly before the Crusaders’ 
conquest. 

Among the contemporary students of this period, one must mention 
A. Scheiber, who published a number of important studies, including 
Geniza documents relating to Palestine, chiefly from the David Kaufmann 
collection in Budapest. These studies were later assembled in one book, 
his Geniza Studies. Of considerable significance are the works of S. 
Abramson on the Geonim of Palestine and on Elhanan b. Shemaria, which 
also include Geniza documents. E. Fleischer, whose major area of research 
is that of poetry and the piyyut, including naturally the Palestinian poets, 
has in one of his articles rendered an important contribution to our 
knowledge of the personality of Daniel b. Azariah, the Nasi and Gaon. 

Concerning the discussion on the Karaites, apart from Harkavy and 
Poznanski, whom I have already mentioned, one must point to the work 
of S. Pinsker, who more than 130 years ago edited important Karaite texts 
which he copied from manuscripts, accompanied by detailed commen¬ 
taries. His book Liqqute qadmdniydt has served as an important tool for any 
researcher investigating the history of Karaism in Palestine; and naturally 
one must mention the second volume ofMann’s Texts and Studies, entirely 
devoted to the history of the Karaites, a substantial part of which deals 
with the Karaites in Palestine before the Crusaders’ conquest. Among 
today’s scholars, there are L. Nemoy, N. Wieder, and Z. Ankori, whose 
outstanding works I have mentioned in the chapter on the Karaites, each in 
his own right. 

One must also mention in connection with the work on the Geniza 
documents in this book four important reference books: one is that of 
J. Blau, on the Judaeo-Arabic grammar of the Middle Ages, which today 
enables us to consider the language in which most of the documents in my 
collection are written, as a separate dialect with known and defined 
characteristics. Such matters as the turning of the Arabic tanwin into a 
separate word, or the addition or dropping of the mater lectionis, and many 
other such points, are clarified and explained in his book. The second book 

xviii 



PREFACE 


is the bibliography of S. Shaked, which was of considerable help in the 
initial assembling of the material from the Geniza and in tracing the studies 
that had been made until the early 1960s. The third, the Handbuch der 
judischen Chronologie by E. Mahler, which helped me, by the use of its 
tables, to reckon the equivalents to the Hebrew dates. The fourth, G. S. P. 
Freeman-Grenville’s small booklet, with its conversion tables of Muslim 
dates. 

The transcription of the Arabic names and words in this book is in 
conformity with accepted scholarly usage. Hebrew titles and names are 
transcribed in a less ‘orthodox’ manner; both Biblical and later names and 
terms are transcribed according to the usage in current research, as for 
example in the Encyclopaedia Judaica. Naturally there is a certain lack of 
uniformity in this, which I hope will be accepted by most readers with a 
degree of tolerance. 

I am indebted to the directors and trustees of the libraries in which the 
Geniza documents and the Arabic manuscripts are preserved, for per¬ 
mission to study and edit the texts. Foremost among them is Dr S. C. Reif, 
Director of the Geniza Research Unit of the Cambridge University Li¬ 
brary (where the bulk of the Geniza materials are found), who together 
with his staff and other personnel of the library there helped me im¬ 
mensely. My gratitude goes to Professor M. Shmelzer, the Librarian of 
thejewish Theological Seminary of New York, where the large collection 
in the name of E. N. Adler is kept; I was also rendered a great deal of 
assistance by him and his staff. I am also grateful to all those directors and 
trustees of the other libraries in which I worked and was welcomed and 
aided in every respect: the Bodleian Library in Oxford; the British Library; 
the Library of the Alliance israelite universelle in Paris; the Library of 
Dropsie University in Philadelphia; the Freer Gallery in Washington; the 
Library of Westminster College, Cambridge; and Merton College, 
Oxford. Special gratitude is due to the late Professor A. Scheiber, who 
went to the trouble of sending me excellent photographs of documents 
from the David Kaufmann Collection in Budapest; Dr Helena Loeben- 
stein, also for excellent photographs of documents from the Erzherzog 
Rainer Collection in Vienna; and further, my thanks go to the University 
Library in Heidelberg for its supply of excellent photographs; the John 
Rylands Library, Manchester; the University Museum of the University 
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia; and the Department of Manuscripts of the 
National Library in Jerusalem. 

My special gratitude goes to the personnel of the Institute of Micro¬ 
filmed Hebrew Manuscripts at the National Library in Jerusalem, where I 
was able to examine most of the texts from the Geniza and elsewhere, by 
microfilm. The writing of this book would not have been possible with¬ 
out the assistance of this institution. Also, I express my thanks in particular 


xix 



PREFACE 


to the staff of the Library of the Tel Aviv University, where I wrote this 
book, amidst friendly people who were always prepared to help. 

I am much indebted to Professor S. Simonsohn, Head of the Diaspora 
Research Institute, Tel Aviv University, who initiated and very devotedly 
dealt with the Hebrew edition of this book. 

And last, but certainly not least, I would like to offer my heartfelt 
gratitude to my late teacher, Professor S. D. Goitein, who guided me 
towards this work and gave me his support - both by his words and his 
writings. 

As regards the present English version, I am very grateful to the 
translator, Mrs Ethel Broido, who heroically supported all my remarks 
and inquiries; to Mrs Sheila Bahat, of Tel Aviv University, who read the 
manuscript and offered very valuable remarks; to Miss Ora Vaza, who 
prepared the general index; and to Dr Gill Thomas and Dr Susan Van de 
Ven, of the Cambridge University Press, for their devoted and skillful 
editorial work. The translation work was made possible by the assistance 
of Tel Aviv University, through the Haim Rosenberg School of Jewish 
Studies, the Diaspora Research Institute, and the Joseph and Ceil Mazer 
Chair in the History of the Jews in Muslim Lands. 


xx 



AA SS 

AESC 

AH 

AHR 

AI 

AIBL 

AIEO 

AIU 

AJSLL 

AJSR 

AM 

Antonin 

AO 

AOL 

b. 

BEO 

BGA 

BIFAO 

BIRHT 

BJPES 

BJRL 

BM 

BNGJ 

Bodl MS Heb 

BSOAS 

BT 

BZ 


Abbreviations 




Acta Sanctorum 

Annales: economies, societes, civilisations 
hijra year 

American Historical Review 
Ars Islamica 

Academie des inscriptions et belles lettres 
Annales de Vlnstitut d’etudes orientates (Alger) 

Alliance israelite universelle, Paris 

American Journal of Semitic Languages and Literatures 

Association for Jewish Studies Review 

anno mundi, era of the creation 

The Antonin Geniza collection, Leningrad 

Ars Orientalis 

Archives de I’Orient latin 

ben, bin, ibn, bat, bint = son or daughter of 
Bulletin d’etudes orientates 
Bibliotheca geographorum Arabicorum 
Bulletin de Vlnstitut franpais d’archeologie orientate 
Bulletin de Vlnstitut de recherches et d’histoire des textes 
Bulletin of the Jewish Palestine Exploration Society 
(Hebrew; = YedVot ha-hevrd la-haqirat eres isrd’el) 
Bulletin of the John Rylands Library 
British Museum 

Byzantinisch-neugriechische Jahrbiicher 

The collection of Hebrew (and Judaeo-Arabic) MSs at 

the Bodleian Library, Oxford 

Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies 

(London) 

Babylonian Talmud 
Byzantinische Zeitschrift 


xxi 



ABBREVIATIONS 


CCM 

Cahiers de civilisation medievale 

CCSL 

Corpus Christianomm. Series Latina 

Consist, isr. 

The Geniza collection of the Consistoire israelite, 

Paris 

CSCO 

Corpus scriptorum Christianomm Orientalium 

CSHB 

Corpus scriptorum historiae Byzantinae 

DACL 

Dictionnaire d’archeologie chretienne et de liturgie 

DHGE 

Dictionnaire d’histoire et de geographie ecclesiastique 

DK 

The David Kaufmann Collection, Budapest 

Dropsie 

The Geniza Collection of Dropsie University (at the 
Annenberg Institute, Philadelphia) 

DTC 

Dictionnaire de theologie catholique 

ECQ 

Eastern Churches Quarterly 

EHR 

English Historical Review 

El 

Encylopaedia of Islam 

ENA 

The Elkanah Nathan Adler Collection, the Library of 
the Jewish Theological Seminary, New York 

EO 

Echos d’Orient 

f. 

folium 

Firkovitch 

The Geniza collection of A. Firkovitch, Leningrad 

GAL 

Geschichte der arabischen Literatur 

GCAL 

Geschichte der christlichen arabischen Literatur 

HTR 

Harvard Theological Review 

HUC 

Hebrew Union College (Cincinnati) 

HUCA 

Hebrew Union College Annual 

IC 

Islamic Culture 

IE] 

Israel Exploration Journal 

IFAO 

Institut francais d’archeologie orientale 

IJMES 

International Journal of Middle Eastern Studies 

INJ 

Israel Numismatic Journal 

IOS 

Israel Oriental Studies 

IQ 

Islamic Quarterly 

JA 

Journal asiatique 

JAH 

Journal of Asian History 

JAORS 

Journal of the American Oriental Society 

JEA 

Journal of Egyptian Archaeology 

JESHO 

Journal of the Economic and Social History of the Orient 

JHS 

Journal of Hellenic Studies 

JJGL 

Jahrbuch jurjiidische Geschichte und Literatur 

JJS 

Journal of Jewish Studies 

JNES 

Journal of Near Eastern Studies 

JNUL 

Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem 

xxii 



ABBREVIATIONS 


JPOS 

Journal of the Palestine Oriental Society 

JQR 

Jewish Quarterly Review 

JRAS 

Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society 

JSAl 

Jerusalem Studies in Arabic and Islam 

JSS 

Jewish Social Studies 

JTS 

Jewish Theologial Seminary 

MAIBL 

Memoires de Vacademie des inscriptions et belles lettres 

MGH 

Monumenta Germaniae historica 

MGWJ 

Monatsschrifi fur die Geschichte und Wissenschafi des 
Judenthums 

MIE 

Memoires presentes d I’Institut d’Egypte 

Mosseri 

The Geniza Collection of the Jewish Community in 
Cairo, kept by the Mosseri family 

MPG 

Migne, Patrologia, series Graeca 

MPL 

Migne, Patrologia, series Latina 

MS 

Manuscript 

MUSJ 

Melanges de VUniversite St Joseph 

MW] 

Magazin jiir die Wissenschafi des Judenthums 

OLZ 

Orientalistische Literatur-Zeitung 

PAAJR 

Proceedings of the American Academy for Jewish Research 

PEFQ 

Palestine Exploration Fund Quarterly 

PER 

The collection of MSs named after Erzherzog 
(Archduc) Rainer, Vienna 

PO 

Patrologia Orientalis 

POC 

Proche-Orient chretien 

PT 

Palestinian Talmud 

PW 

Realencyclopadie der classischen Altertumwissenschajt 

QDAP 

Quarterly of the Department of Antiquities in Palestine 

RAAD 

Revue de Vacademie arabe de Damas 

RB 

Revue biblique 

REB 

Revue des etudes byzantines 

REI 

Revue des etudes islamiques 

REJ 

Revue des etudes juives 

RH 

Revue historique 

RHC 

Recueil des historiens des croisades 

RHGF 

Recueil des historiens des Gaules et de la France 

RHR 

Revue de Vhistoire des religions 

RIDA 

Revue internationale des droits de l’antiquite 

RMI 

Rassegna mensile di Israel 

ROC 

Revue de VOrient chretien 

ROE 

Revue de VOrient latin 

RSO 

Rivista degli studi orientali 


xxiii 



ABBREVIATIONS 


SBB 

Studies in Bibliography and Booklore 

Sel. 

Seleucid era 

SI 

Studia Islamica 

TLZ 

Theologische Literaturzeitung 

TS 

The Taylor Schechter Collection, University Library, 
Cambridge 

ULC 

University Library, Cambridge 

ZA 

Zeitschriji jiir Assyriologie 

ZAW 

Zeitschriji jiir die alttestamentliche Wissenschajt 

ZDMG 

Zeitschriji der deutschen morgenlandischen Gesellschajt 

ZDPV 

Zeitschriji des deutschen Palastina- Vereins 

ZjhB 

Zeitschriji jiir hebraische Bibliographic 


XXIV 



Glossary of Hebrew and 
Arabic terms 


’alama, a specific word, or formula, used by notables at the end of their 
correspondence. 

aliif a scholar appointed by the yeshiva, generally to serve as judge and 
leader in his community, but also a honorific title, granted by the 
Babylonian yeshivot. 
amir, a military commander. 
av-bet-din, head of the court. 
dayyan, judge. 

gaon (pi. geonim; exact spelling: ga’oti), head of the yeshiva. 
hadith, Muslim oral tradition, generally ascribed to the Prophet. 
haver (pi. haverim), a scholar appointed by the yeshiva as leader and judge 
in his community, a title granted mainly by the Palestinian yeshiva. 
heqdesh (also: qodesh), the Jewish pious foundations, for the benefit of the 
synagogues, the poor, and so on. 
kunya, the byname beginning with Abu (father of...). 
maurla, has several meanings; in the early period: a non-Arab who 
accepted Islam and was under the protection of an Arab tribe or clan. 
melammed, teacher. 

midrash, traditional interpretation of a Biblical passage (often in an anec¬ 
dotal style). 

mumhe, a person authorised by the yeshiva to assist the local judge. 
nagid (pi. negidim), in the period under discussion: leader, title granted by 
the yeshiva to a Jewish notable who was close to the caliph’s court. 
nasi (pi. nesi’im), in the period under discussion: a member of the exilarchic 
family, which claimed descent from King David. 
pamds, a community official in charge of charity, financial matters, main¬ 
tenance, and so on. 
piyyiit (pi. piyyutim), religious poem. 
rosh (Hebrew) or ra’is, rayyis (Arabic), head, chief, leader. 
rosh ha-gola, head of the Diaspora, exilarch. 


xxv 



GLOSSARY OF HEBREW AND ARABIC TERMS 


rosh ha-shana, the Jewish New Year’s day. 

sijill, a decree issued by the highest Muslim state authority (usually the 
caliph). 

talmtd, title of a scholar, correspondent of the yeshiva; less than haver, 
yeshiva (pi. yeshivot), main institution ofjewish communal leadership and 
learning. 


xxvi 



Introduction 




[1] As we shall see, the Muslim conquest of Palestine was not an expedi¬ 
tious event, at any rate not in present-day terms. It was evidently a process 
which began before the death of Muhammad and at first, its principal aim 
was to draw the Arab tribes living under Byzantine rule into the Islamic 
camp - a process which lasted some ten years until the capture of Ascalon, 
which held out until 644. The Muslim conquest of Palestine opened an 
entirely new page in Palestine’s history. The new element in the situation 
was the fact that the nomadic tribes, which for many generations had been 
kept at a distance from the cultivated lands and their cultures by the rulers 
of those lands, were now forcefully spearheading into these lands and 
becoming their masters. A new society was born. While the subdued 
population, Jews and Christians, continued to form the majority in Pal¬ 
estine during the period under discussion, the Bedouin constituted the 
ruling class under the Damascene caliphate; whereas for generations after 
750, the year of the Abbasid revolt, the Muslim officials, the military, the 
religious personalities and legalists, ruled the country. 

The most characteristic feature of this period was the undermining of 
internal security. These scores of generations (or more precisely, 465 
years), witnessed almost unceasing warfare. The Muslim camp, which 
first appeared on the scene in an amazingly disciplined and united fashion, 
soon disintegrated. Behind the facade of the Islamic state, which stub¬ 
bornly pursued its war against enemies from without, ancient inter-tribal 
differences arose, adding to the struggle for leadership. These quickly 
extended beyond the boundaries of verbal argument and political conniv¬ 
ing and moved into the field of war and bloodshed. Later on, we shall 
discover, these wars took on a special significance for Palestine after the 
process of fragmentation of the caliphate was completed and Egypt 
assumed independence, ridding itself of the yoke of the central Muslim 
rule then located in Baghdad. The circumstances which prevailed in 
Palestine in ancient times were then renewed with even greater vigour. 



INTRODUCTION 


when adversaries from the North, East and South each sought to domi¬ 
nate it in order to prevent the likelihood of its being used as a springboard 
for attack by the opposing side. At the same time, Palestine once again 
became a permanent theatre of war between the belligerent camps, with an 
intensity and persistence of a kind unknown in antiquity. This led to the 
uprooting of the population and the destruction of the flourishing econ¬ 
omy handed down by the Byzantines. 

Apart from some ninety years during which Palestine was subject to the 
rule of Damascus, the country was far from the centre of government. The 
Damascene rulers viewed it as a region of Syria, part of al-Sham, a 
comprehensive term with more than one meaning which was used to 
denote both Syria and Palestine. True, they did not have the power to 
prevent inter-tribal warfare within Palestine’s borders, but they did carry 
out building projects and attempted to improve the roads and irrigation 
systems. The rulers who succeeded them, however, in Baghdad and 
afterwards in Egypt, considered Palestine to be a neglected outlying area 
of interest only because of the taxes which could be extracted from the 
country and also for military purposes. The Christian world was 
interested in Palestine - particularly in Jerusalem - for religious reasons, 
expressing this interest in the form of pilgrimage, which continued despite 
difficulties and the enormous distances, as well as concern for the churches 
and monasteries. Nevertheless, it appears that the Christians’ hold gradu¬ 
ally declined, except injerusalem, and even there the Christian population 
became increasingly destitute. On the eve of the Crusades it was in a very 
sorry state indeed. Only in the Jewish mind did Palestine continue to 
occupy a central position. When Jews used the expression al-Sham at this 
time, the intended connotation was generally Palestine. The Jewish popu¬ 
lation residing in the country at the time of the Muslim conquest consisted 
of the direct descendants of the generations of Jews who had lived there 
since the days of Joshua bin Nun, in other words for some 2,000 years. 
During the more than four hundred years of Muslim rule, the Jewish 
population continued to exist despite difficulties. As to the conquest itself, 
it marked an important turning point in the annals of the city of Jerusalem 
and the history of the Jewish population in Palestine, the return of the Jews 
to Jerusalem and the establishment of a Jewish quarter within its confines. 
From a more general outlook, as the Muslim world allowed for compara¬ 
tively greater freedom of movement from country to country and from 
region to region, we shall witness the phenomenon of Jews immigrating 
to Palestine from the East and the West. This immigration, which bore no 
ideological earmarks apart from a pure and simple attachment to the 
country, would at times be caused by hardship, such as the immigration 
from Iraq, while that of the Karaites forms a special chapter of its own. 

As far back as Byzantine rule, the Palestinian sages were already arguing 


2 



INTRODUCTION 


over the question ‘whether most of Palestine is in the hands of the gentiles’ 
or ‘whether the greater part of Palestine is in the hands of Israel’, 1 that is to 
say, to whom the major portion of the land of Palestine belongs. We may 
reasonably state that at the time of the Muslim conquest, a large Jewish 
population still lived in Palestine. We do not know whether they formed 
the majority but we may assume with some certainty that they did so 
when grouped together with the Samaritans. 

An important source regarding Palestine’s demographic structure 
during Byzantine rule are the stories of the Christian monk Bar-Sawma. 
In the biography of this fighting monk, who was born in Samosata in Asia 
Minor and active in Palestine in the fifth century AD, it is told that the 
Jews, together with the heathens, constituted the majority in Palestine, 
Phoenicia and Arabia (which included the south of Palestine). There were 
as yet few Christians. Thejews and the Samaritans virtually governed the 
land and were persecuting the Christians. In the campaign against thejews 
and the idol-worshippers, a band of forty monks led by Bar-Sawma, and 
evidently with the assistance of the Byzantine army, came up against the 
opposition of 15,000 armed Jews. Among the synagogues that Bar- 
Sawma destroyed was one (the source refers to a synagogue as beyt shabe) 
in the city Reqem of Gaya (Petra) ‘which could bear comparison only to 
Solomon’s temple’. In about the year 425, thejews of the Galilee and its 
surroundings applied to the empress Eudocia to permit them to pray on 
the ruins of Solomon’s temple, as Constantine had forbidden them to 
reside in the Jerusalem area. The author of the biography also cites the 
letter written by the Galilean Jews to Jews in Persia and Rome after they 
had received the empress’ permission: 

To the great and elevated nation of the Jews, from the Priest and Head of Galilee, 
many greetings. Ye shall know that the time of the dispersion of our people is at an 
end, and from now onwards the day of our congregation and salvation has come, 
for the Roman kings have written a decree to hand over our city Jerusalem to us. 
Therefore come quickly to Jerusalem for the coming holiday of Succoth, for our 
kingdom is established in Jerusalem. 

And indeed 103,000Jews came and gathered injerusalem but were stoned 
from the sky, ‘something that cannot be doubted’, whereas the Jews 
complained to Eudocia claiming that it was the monks who had attacked 
them. 2 

[2] The relative strength of the Samaritans is evident in their rebellions, 

1 p'p £> emai y 22 c. 

2 The stories of Bar-Sawma: Nau, ROC, 18 (1913), 19(1914); REJ, 83(1927); and Honig- 
mann, Le convent, Louvain 1954, 17f, who thinks that the stories of Bar-Sawma are not 
credible, certainly with regard to thejews mentioned there; he sees them as figments of the 
author’s imagination, as he lived 100 years later. But this is a very facile way of dismissing 
ancient sources. We must not disregard or refute their contents even if they appear 
legendary in character; they still retain a germ of historical truth. 


3 



INTRODUCTION 


which broke out generation after generation, in 484, in approximately 
500, in 529, and in 555. An anti-Jewish polemical tract written at the 
beginning of the Muslim invasion of Palestine, entitled ‘The Didaskalia 
[doctrine] of Jacob, the Recently Baptised’, is indirect evidence of the 
large number of Jews in Acre and Sykamona (Haifa) at the time. Suf¬ 
ficiently clear reference to a dense population ofjews in southern Palestine 
has been preserved in Arabic sources which tell of the covenant made by 
Muhammad in 630 with a number of Jewish settlements. Eilat (Ayla) is 
also described in Arabic sources as a city with many Jewish inhabitants. 
Procopius of Caesarea, writing in the middle of the sixth century, men¬ 
tions the Jewish population in Eilat and its surroundings, which enjoyed a 
kind of au tonomy there until Justinian’s day. 3 

[3] The period preceding the conquest by the Muslims of important 
parts of the Byzantine Empire, was undoubtedly a period of decline and 
even of internal disintegration of the empire. The death of Justinian was 
followed by eras of anarchy, poverty and plagues. The chronicles describ¬ 
ing the days of Justin II speak of the approaching end of the world. The 
prevailing and central event during this period was the war with Persia. In 
addition, the emperors were forced to wage wars against the Slavs and the 
Avars in the Balkan Peninsula, and also against the Longobards - Arians 
by creed - in Italy, which only came to an end in 568 with the latter’s 
victory. Justinian reached a settlement with the Persians in 561 or 562 for a 
fifty years’ peace. 4 

3 The subject of Acre and Haifa: Maas, BZ, 20(1911), 576f; see also Procopius in the First 
Book of the Wars, ch. xix, 3-4. Many interpret his text as applying to the island of lotabe 
which he mentions. But in saying ‘there the Jews lived’, he means the entire neigh¬ 
bourhood of Aila-Eilat, which he mentions at the beginning of that narrative. Eilat (Etzion 
Gaver) is ‘Asya, or Asya, in the Talmudic sources. See Klein, Freimann Jubilee Volume, 
116fF; Alon, Studies, I, 320. Eusebius already identified it in his Onomastikon, see the 
Klostermann edition, p. 62, On the Jewish character of certain localities in Palestine, such 
as Tiberias, Kefar Nahum, Sepphoris and Nazareth, see what is written according to the 
sources of the Church Fathers in: Couret, La Palestine, 5f. He stresses that the Jews were 
part of the agricultural population of the country, as he puts it, together with the Greeks, 
the Samaritans and the Arabs. (See ibid., 82, and his sources in n. 1 of that work.) The fact 
that Sepphoris was inhabited by Jews in the sixth century is recognisable from the Muslim 
tradition about Umayya, father of the family of the Damascus caliphs. He stayed in 
Palestine for ten years and lived with a captive who was kept by the Banu Lakhm, who was 
a ‘Jewess from the people of Sepphoris’, and had left behind a husband. She gave birth to 
Dhakwan, whose kunya was Abu ‘Amr; one of the descendants of the family, ‘Uqba b. Abi 
Mu'ayf, made an attempt on Muhammad’s life near the ka'ba in Mecca and was executed on 
the order of the Prophet, after having been captured during the battle of Badr; when he 
claimed that he was a tribesman of Quraysh, the Prophet retorted: ‘You are but ajew of the 
Sepphoris people’; see Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 1186, 1336f; Ibn Qutayba, Ma'arif, 319; Bakri, 
837; Ibn al-Athlr, Usd, V, 90 (s.v. Abu ‘Amr). Mas'udi, Muruj, IV, 257f, has an additional 
tradition, in which al-W'alid, the son of this ‘Uqba, was governor of Kufa at the time of 
Caliph ‘Uthman, when ‘Aqll (‘All’s brother), shouted at him that he was but a foreigner, of 
the people of Sepphoris. 

4 Vasiliev, History, 169ff; details of the peace settlement, see Menander, CSHB, XH (1829), 
346ff; cf. Bury, History, 1, 467£f; II, 120 ff. 


4 



INTRODUCTION 


[4] Justin II (565-578) violated the treaty and refused to pay the annual 
tribute to the Persians which was one of its conditions (30,000 gold 
nomismas, or the equivalent of ca. 130 kilograms). The negotiations 
conducted between Byzantium and the Turkish tribes on the northeastern 
borders of the Persian empire added to the tension. Meanwhile the Byzan¬ 
tines were busy in Italy with the Longobards’ attacks, and long, drawn- 
out battles were waged against the Persians, continuing well into the era of 
Tiberius (578-582) and Mauricius (582-602). Only during the latter’s 
reign did the scales tip down on the side of the Byzantines, principally 
because of internal quarrels within the Persian royal family. The Persians 
were obliged to sign a new peace agreement which involved the loss of 
large tracts of land in Armenia and northern Mesopotamia, and the 
cancelling of the annual tribute mentioned earlier. 

The declining security along the borders of Byzantium brought about 
by attacks from the Barbarian peoples, gave rise to a change in the internal 
governing order; new administrative bodies were formed, such as the 
exarchates and themai, in which the ruling power lay in the hands of the 
army commanders. Finally, the army took over the capital itself, Maur¬ 
icius was assassinated, and the army commander, Phocas, ascended the 
emperor’s throne (602-610). During his reign, Byzantium was torn by 
internal dissension, which developed into a cruel civil war between the 
aristocrats (the blues) and the populist party (the greens). Some sources 
ascribe an important role to thejews in these events, especially thejews of 
Antioch. 5 

[5] In 610, Heraclius was crowned emperor. The chronicles speak 
highly of him and admit to his being able and well intentioned. Many 
world-shaking events took place during his reign: the Persian victories, 
which also led to their temporary conquest of Palestine, changes within 
the empire, and the Muslim conquests, which deprived Byzantium of 
much of its Mediterranean lands. 

The Persian offensive had already begun in 611, and in the course of 
seven or eight years the Persians conquered Antioch, the major city of the 
Byzantine East, Damascus and all of Syria, Palestine, Asia Minor and also 
Egypt. The Persian campaign brought to light the existence of connec¬ 
tions - at least emotional and possibly also one-sided - between thejews 
and the Persians. Mutual interests had already been evident about a 
hundred years earlier, during the war in Himyar, the southern part of the 
Arabian peninsula. Jews and Persians then shared interests although no 
evidence has been preserved of actual contact or collaboration, unlike the 
affiliation between Byzantium and the Ethiopians and the local Christians 

5 See: Demetrius Martyr, in MPG, vol. 116, 1261ff; Isidor Hispalensis, in MPL, vol. 83, 
1056A; SaTd Ibn Bitriq (Cheikho), 589ff; Theophanes, 269; Chronicon Paschale, in MPG, 
vol. 92, 980; Mahbub (Agapius), 189 (449). 


S 



INTRODUCTION 


of Himyar. The Jews evidently enjoyed an important status in the Persian 
kingdom owing to their large numbers and also to the role occupied by 
Jewish merchants in Persia’s international trade. Jewish soldiers served in 
the Persian army, and if we are to credit the account of Michael the Syrian, 
they even caused Persian commanders to put a halt to fighting onjewish 
holidays. 6 

[6] There seems to be considerable exaggeration, however, in the ac¬ 
counts of those who describe the Persian conquest of Palestine as if it were 
an era of squaring accounts for the Jews; a sort of Messianic era. The 
Chronicon Paschale describes the death and destruction inflicted by the 
Persians in Jerusalem, without mentioning the Jews in this connection at 
all. 7 

[7] Antiochus Eustratios (his name dwindled to Strategics), a monk 
captured by the Persians injerusalem, describes the conquest of the city in 
greater detail. The patriarch Zacharias apparently intended to hand over 
Jerusalem peacefully but as its inhabitants opposed a settlement, it was 
conquered after a siege of twenty days. Antiochus places the blame for the 
murder of many of the city’s Christians on the Jews; according to him 
Christians were murdered due to their refusal to accept Judaism. He also 
accuses the Jews of destroying the churches. Theophanes repeats Anti¬ 
ochus’ remarks in his own chronicle, adding the story of a wealthy Jew 
called Benjamin of Tiberias, whom the Christians accused of having 
attacked them before the Emperor Heraclius when he passed through 
Tiberias after the Byzantine victory. Benjamin admitted his guilt and 
justified his actions as grounded in Jewish hostility towards Christians. He 
was saved from punishment by being baptised on the emperor’s orders. 8 

[8] Other mediaeval chronicles merely copied and elaborated on these 
accounts, such as the anonymous Syriac chronicle which adds a story 
about the scheme which thejews (‘sons of the crucifiers’) proposed to the 
Persian commander, namely to dig underneath the grave ofjesus in order 
to find the gold treasures lying underneath. From other sources it is clear 
that after the Persian conquest, Jerusalem and its inhabitants enjoyed a 
spell of serenity. 

Modestus, abbot of the monastery named for the Holy Theodosius, 
who was the locum tenens for the exiled Zacharias, began to rebuild the 
city out of its ruins with contributions which poured in from the entire 

6 Michael the Syrian (Chabot), II, 1. 

1 Chronicon Paschale, in MPG, 92, 988. 

8 See the story of Antiochus in Couret, ROC, 2 (1897), 147-154 (MS Paris, Ar. 262); see also 
Peeters, MUSJ, 9:3, 1923—4; Clermont-Ganneau, PEFQ, 1898:44; Conybeare, EHR, 
25:502, 1910; Peeters, Anal. Boll, 38:144, 1920; Milik, MUSJ, 37:127, 1961; see more 
details concerning Antiochus in Peeters, Trefonds, 210; Graf, GCAL, I, 411; see Theo¬ 
phanes, 300f, 328. 


6 



INTRODUCTION 


Christian world, especially from the patriarch of Alexandria. In 619, while 
the country was still in Persian hands, Sophronius, who was to become 
patriarch in the autumn of 633, returned to Palestine. It is not clear 
whether Zacharias managed to return to Jerusalem as well, and there is 
conflicting information on the subject. A useful survey of sources dealing 
with the situation of the Jews in Palestine under Byzantine rule in the 
seventh century and with events which took place during the Persian 
conquest, including the Emperor HeracHus’ policy towards the Jews, can 
be found in Nau’s edition of the above-mentioned ‘Didaskalia of Jacob’, 
although the sources are treated by him with equal consideration and little 
critical discrimination. The same approach can be found today among 
some scholars dealing with the history of this period and its sources. Thus 
Stratos, who sees the Jews as responsible for whatever occurred in Jerusa¬ 
lem during the Persian conquest, produces an undiscerning mixture of 
sources together with present-day literature. For we have seen that those 
sources which are nearest in time and place to the events, do not mention 
thejews at all. In the same manner, Hage repeats the ‘information’ that the 
Jews used to buy Christian captives in order to hand them over to be killed 
by the Persians. Pertusi writes in a similar vein. 9 

[9] While still engaged in the war against the Avars, Heraclius began to 
organise his forces for war against the Persians. It seems that an important 
aspect of his preparations was the pacts he concluded with tribes and 
peoples who were the Persians’ enemies, particularly those of the Cauca¬ 
sus and the Khazars. Meanwhile the Persians were busy strengthening 
their alliance with the Avars. This war lasted some six years, from 622 
until 628. One of its significant results was the defeat of the Avars in 626, 
when they were attempting to attack Constantinople in the wake of their 
collaboration with the Persians. One year later, towards the end of 
627, the Persians suffered their greatest defeat near the ruins of ancient 

9 See the translation of the Syriac chronicle: Noldeke, Sitzungsb. Wien, 128 (1892), No. 9, 
24ff. The information regarding the Jewish revolt in Antioch that was supposed to have 
taken place in 610, with the approach of the Persians to the city, in Avi-Yonah, Rome and 
Byzantium (Hebrew), 1, 189, is basically erroneous. Mahbub (Agapius), 189(449), has 
information regarding this revolt as having taken place during the reign of Phocas, and it 
does not belong here. The town of Caesarea which thejews handed over to the Persians, 
according to Sebeos (whose information is generally not correct) is not the Caesarea of 
Palestine, as assumed by Sharf, 49, but Caesarea in Cappadocia; cf. Avi-Yonah, ibid., 224. 
See also SaTd Ibn Bitriq, I, 216, who repeats the account of the Jews’ aid to the Persians. 
These sources served as a pretext for a violently anti-Semitic article by Vailhe, Echos 
d’Orient, 12:15, 1909. ‘The popular belief he says, ‘disseminated almost throughout the 
entire world, which sees the hand of thejews in the great calamities which spilled the blood 
of mankind, is not only the product of our times, and it is not only now that this strange 
race is ascribed a frightening role in the tragedies that befall a city or a nation . ..’; see 
Schonborn, 71, on the agreement and rehabilitation; see Nau, Didascalie, 732ff, Stratos, 
Byzantium, I, 109ff; Hage, Syrisch-jakobitische Kirche, 86; Pertusi, Persia, 619. 


7 



INTRODUCTION 


Nineveh, in the northern part of Mesopotamia. The Byzantine army 
plunged into the heart of Persia, Khusraw was dethroned and assassinated, 
and his heir, Kawad Sheroe, entered into negotiations with Heraclius. The 
Byzantines thus recovered all their lost lands and the Persians returned to 
the Byzantines the ‘holy wood’, a relic of the cross on which, according to 
Christian belief, Jesus was crucified. During his triumphal journey, Hera¬ 
clius visited Jerusalem and together with his wife, Martina, participated in 
the ceremony of returning the ‘holy wood’. This victory is hinted at in the 
Koran, in surat al-rum (the chapter on Byzantium) xxx:l: ‘The Byzantines 
were subdued in the nearby country, but after their defeat, they will be the 
victors in a few years time.’ 

During the Persian conquest of Jerusalem in 614, Muhammad was 
already deeply engaged in his struggle against his townsmen, the people of 
Mecca, in an attempt to win them over to the small community of 
believers gathered round him. In 622, while he was fleeing to Medina with 
his followers, the Byzantines unleashed their war against the Persians. At 
the time, the latter were still reigning in Palestine, not far from Medina, 
and it seems that their influence was considerably felt in the Arabian 
Peninsula. In 628, with the return of Byzantine rule in Palestine, Mu¬ 
hammad had already managed to arrange the truce in Hudaybiyya which 
prepared the ground for his conquest of Mecca. According to Muslim 
tradition, the Prophet was informed of the Byzantine victory on ‘Huday¬ 
biyya Day’ and was pleased when he learned of the event. By summer’s 
end of the same year, he organised his campaign against the Jewish farmers 
living in Khaybar, north of Medina. One can assume that this campaign 
was in some way connected with the defeat of the Persians, assumed to be 
the defenders of the Jews. The Byzantine victory was accompanied by a 
wave of persecution of the Jews throughout the Christian world. Both 
Christian and Muslim sources speak of Heraclius’ edict of apostasy, in¬ 
tended to force all thejews in his kingdom to convert to Christianity. This 
edict evidently suited the policy of centralisation and religious unity which 
Heraclius was resolutely trying to achieve, now that he was crowned with 
the laurels of victory. He undertook vigorous negotiations with the 
Monophysites in order to formulate a unified framework for the Church, 
for which purpose he was prepared to forego certain dogmatic precepts. 
They were to maintain the principle ofjesus’ two natures (the divine and 
the human), but as a concession to the Monophysites, the Orthodox 
Church would have to recognise the unity of action and will (hen thelema) 
from which stems the name of the new creed, Monotheletism. The 
patriarch of Constantinople, Sergius, supported the plan, as did the 
Monophysite patriarchs of Antioch and Alexandria. Even the pope Hon- 
orius was inclined to accept the reform and was persuaded to authorise it in 


8 



INTRODUCTION 


his letters to Sergius. It was the Palestinian monk Sophronius, later 
patriarch in Jerusalem, who emphatically objected to the emperor’s plan. 
When Heraclius made public his plan for a new religious reform in 638, 
there was already another pope seated in Rome, Severin, who rejected it 
altogether. What was worse, the Christians in the East, whom the em¬ 
peror had hoped to bring back into the arms of the Church on the score of 
his reform, had already been or were about to be conquered by Islam. 
During this period of efforts to arrive at the centralisation and maximal 
administrative and religious unification of the empire, the persecution of 
the Jews became a fixed and fundamental principle of state policy. 

The Romanian historian of Byzantium, Bratianu, has described the 
situation very aptly in 1941: 

One should stress a noteworthy fact, which sheds particular light on the similarity 
between the totalitarian, or at least authoritarian, regime in Byzantium in the 
seventh century, and those states which had, or still have today, a similar form of 
government: that the decline of political parties and the advent of absolute power, 
were in that period accompanied by a wave of acute anti-Semitism. There was 
nothing unusual in this, as the feeling of hatred toward the Jews was a common¬ 
place feature of the Middle Ages, in Byzantium and elsewhere. But we are 
concerned here with planned and systematic persecution, which is not restricted to 
the Byzantine empire but attempts and also succeeds in dragging along with it the 
other Christian states on the Mediterranean coast. 10 

[10] Heraclius demanded of Dagobert, king of the Franks, that he 
compel all the Jews in his kingdom to convert to Christianity. This was 
indeed carried out, as it was in the rest of the empire, according to the 
chronicler Fredegarius. He, as well as Muslim writers, speaks of the 
portent revealed to Heraclius by his own reading of the stars, that a 
circumcised people would destroy his kingdom. As he was convinced that 
this portent referred to the Jews, he then issued decrees against them, 
unaware that the Muslims shared the tradition of having sons circumcised. 
Ibn Khaldun gives a specific report about the fate of thejews of Palestine: 
at first Heraclius promised thejews security; afterwards he learned from 
the bishops and monks what thejews had done to the churches, and even 
saw some of the destruction himself, and learned of the slaughter. He then 
decreed that thejews should be killed; no one was saved except for those 
who hid or escaped to the mountains and deserts. As for the slaughter of 
thejews of Palestine, this can also be inferred from the fact that one of the 
official fasts of the Coptic Church, which goes on for a week after the first 

10 See Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 1009; Qurfubl, Jdmi', XIV, 5; the Prophet was pleased because the 
Byzantines were ‘people of the Book’ unlike the Persians; Bratianu, Revue historique du 
sud-est europeen, 18(1941), 55f; on the return of the ‘Holy Cross’, see Schonborn, 86, 
according to whom the cross was returned only on 21 March 631, and not on 14 
November 629, as was generally assumed. 


9 



INTRODUCTION 


day of the Carnival (that is, the great fast before Easter), is intended to beg 
God’s pardon for the emperor Heraclius for having permitted the slaugh¬ 
ter of the Jews of Jerusalem in 628. 11 

f 11 ] In the light of these facts, which are undoubtedly but a very 
insignificant part of what actually occurred, it is not surprising that the 
Jews abhorred Byzantium, the kingdom known as Edom the Wicked. 
Daniel al-QumisI, the Karaite Bible commentator, writes towards the end 
of the ninth century AD, expounding on what is written in the Book of 
Daniel (xi: 30-31): 

. . . (therefore he shall be grieved, and return, and have indignation against the holy 
covenant: so shall he do; he shall even return, and have intelligence with them that 
forsake the holy covenant. And arms shall stand on his part, and they shall pollute 
the sanctuary of strength, and shall take away the daily sacrifice, and they shall 
place the abomination that maketh desolate): And he will discriminate [here the 
Arab root ftn is used], and think about the uncircumcised that are in Jerusalem . .. 
the daily sacrifice is that of the uncircumcised . .. the salib [cross] and ttdqus [the 
pieces ofwood used as a bell by eastern Christians] and the Nea church . . . ; he will 
turn their worship into infamy and lessen their kingdom. 

What Daniel al-QumisI meant was that the kingdom of Ishmael would 
abolish Christian rule over Jerusalem. 12 

11 See Fredegarius, 153, 409; see also Mabillon, Book XI, par. 39, pp. 323ff, who speaks of 
the forced baptism (‘which is not the thing to do’) in the year 624, and ibid., par. 62, on 
forced baptism in 627, after Dagobert submits to pressure on the part of Church circles. 
Tabari, Ta’rikh , I, 1562; Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 473; Isbaham, Aghani, VI, 94; Ibn Kathir, Biddya, 
IV, 265f; Ibn Khaldun, 'Ibar, II, 457; Goffart, Speculum, 38(1963), 237, brings the story 
from Fredegarius as pure legend, ignoring the Muslim sources. Again, however, the 
historian should not belittle the significance of sources, even if they seem to be legendary 
in character; on the Coptic fast: Le syuaxaire arabe jaccobite, 562; ci.DTC, X, 2296. 
According to Ibn al-Rahib, 121, Heraclius’ decrees required the apostasy of bothjews and 
Samaritans. The Tolida, the Samaritan chronicle, however, tells of the crucifying of ‘a 
great number of people from among the Samaritans’ precisely by ‘Khuzray [corrected 
reading] King of Assyria’, and there it appears to have taken place four years prior to the 
renewed conquest of Palestine by the Byzantines, that is apparently in 624; see Neubauer, 
Chronique samaritaine, 23 (in the original text); the dates in the Samaritan chronicles are 
completely confused and should not be taken into account. Thus one chronicle mentions 
that when ‘the Ishmaelites came and conquered the land of the Philistines’, the great priest 
was Nethanel; but on the other hand, it states that the death of Abu Bakr (which happened 
prior to the conquest of Palestine) took place during the time of Nethanel’s successor, 
Eleazar; see the chronicle in Adler et Seligsohn, RE], 45(1902), 241; see Birmester, 13, on 
the Coptic fast. 

12 See TS 10 C 2 (no. 2), f. lu edited by Mann, JQR, NS 12(1921), 518, quoted here on the 
basis of what I read at the Institute of Microfilmed Hebrew Manuscripts, film No. 19687, 
which is different in some instances from what Mann has read. Mann, Texts, II, 9, 
assumed that this commentary was written by one of the pupils of Daniel al-QumisI. Cf. 
Ben Shammai, Shalem, 3(1981/1), 295, who shows that the commentary is by Daniel 
al-QumisI. 


IO 



I 

The conquest 


Muhammad and the vision of the conquest 

[12] Towards the end of September 622, an event occurred which is 
known in Islam as the hijra. Muhammad escaped from his tribesmen, the 
Banu Quraysh, who refused to accept the authenticity of his divine 
revelation and even persecuted him and his clan on this score. He fled from 
Mecca to Yathrib, which became known as al-Madlna (Medina). There, 
he and his followers, the Muhajirun, found refuge with their allies, the 
Arab tribes who lived in this city. Muhammad already had contacts with 
these tribes on an earlier occasion, when they were on their pilgrimage to 
Mecca and he had even concluded an agreement with them to terminate 
their endless violent feuding and abolish their bond with the Jews of that 
city. 

The Muslim sources speak of the town of Yathrib as having been a 
Jewish city, and are quite clear that its founders were survivors from the 
revolt against the Romans. While agricultural pursuits were far from 
being the province of the Arab tribes, the Jews were the farmers par 
excellence in the northern part of the Arabian peninsula, cultivating the land 
in the oases. The Arab tribes of Medina had come there from the southern 
part of the peninsula, settling alongside the Jews, and evidently under¬ 
going a process of transition to permanent sedentary life. The new order 
introduced by Muhammad, establishing a covenant between the tribes 
which imposed its authority on every clan and its members, soon enabled 
him to attack the Jews and eventually wipe out the Jewish population of 
the town. Some were banned from the town, others were executed, and 
their property - plantations, fields and houses - was distributed by Mu¬ 
hammad among his followers, who were destitute refugees from Mecca. 
He also used the former property of the Jews to establish a war fund, 
setting up a well-equipped army corps of cavalry troops, the likes of which 
had never before been seen on the Arabian peninsula. Muhammad evi¬ 
dently believed in the capacity of this army, imbued with fiery religious 
belief, to perform great and sensational feats of valour. 


II 



THE CONQUEST 


When Muhammad reached Medina in 622, Palestine was under Persian 
domination. The events of the Persian and Byzantine wars were still alive 
in the minds of the inhabitants of the peninsula and Muhammad was 
certainly aware of what had occurred; these events are mentioned in the 
Koran (surat al-rum). He understood only too well that the two major 
powers, Persia and Byzantium, were gradually being weakened by their 
continuous warring. In one of the most difficult moments endured by the 
young Muslim umma (community), when an expeditionary force from 
Mecca laid siege to Medina and the Muslims were compelled to surround 
themselves by a ditch (something that had never happened in Bedouin 
experience) and were complaining of the laborious digging, Muhammad 
declared that he saw in the sparks that flew from the digging shovels, the 
palaces of Kisra (Khusraw), as they called the Persian king, and Qaysar 
(the Byzantine emperor), as the future patrimony of the Muslims. Both 
the Prophet and the early Muslims professed these ideas and intentions as 
part of a religious outlook according to which the Day ofjudgment was at 
hand and the end of the world, that is the world of the wicked, was 
imminent. Muhammad thought of himself as bringing the Word of God, a 
God who had chosen him to carry His message to the righteous, that is, the 
Muslims, and he had no doubt in his mind that the Muslims would shortly 
inherit the earth. Towards the end of his life, he began his first raids into 
Palestinian territory, which in the meantime had returned to Byzantine 
rule. His goal, at this stage, was evidently to induce the tribes on the 
Palestinian borders to join him, as we shall see below. The major con¬ 
quests only began two years after his death. 


The causes of the Great Jihad 

It is usually assumed that the religious fervour of the Muslims was the 
major impetus of the conquests. It is true that initially, Islam was imbued 
with an ardour of an extreme and uncompromisingly fanatical nature. As I 
have mentioned, the Muslims viewed their war as a war of the End of 
Days, the realisation of an apocalyptic vision. The objective onlooker, 
even if reared in the school of thought which sees a socio-economic motive 
behind every political and military act, will have to admit that this re¬ 
ligious zeal played a very important role. There is little doubt though that 
while it may not have been the chief cause, it was certainly one of the 
remarkable and principal determinants in the Arabs’ success in their series 
of offensives against the Byzantines and the Persians. They invaded the 
territories of these two kingdoms in Asia and Africa with the brazen 
determination to carry out the Prophet’s orders and ultimately to impose 
the mastery of the new religion on the entire world. This religious fervour 


12 



THE CAUSES OF THE GREATJIHAd [SECS. 12-17] 

turned the Muslim into a courageous fighter, contemptuous of death. The 
war was seen as the supreme effort (jihad, a well-known term meaning 
firstly ‘effort’), to go the way dictated by God (jt sabil Allah). Whoever 
falls on the way is promised a place in Paradise, and shall there enjoy the 
most sumptuous pleasures of this world. This belief proved that it could 
turn the dispersed masses of the Arab tribes, who were occupied with 
constant feuding amongst themselves, into a single, relatively united 
camp. 1 

[13] The role of the new religion in such a tremendous historical event as 
the conquest of a large part of the world by the Arab tribes was keenly 
stressed in a lecture by the British student of Islam, Watt, in 1953. In 
opposition to those who point to the significance of the economic and 
social circumstances prevailing in Mecca at the beginning of the seventh 
century, he drew attention to the fact that the adverse conditions of the 
times could have found an outlet in exploits of a fleeting or simply local 
nature. There were many situations in the ancient history of Islam in 
which the slightest weighting of the scales to the other side would have 
prevented the rise of an Arab empire or the continued existence, to this 
very day, of a world of believers in Islam numbering hundreds of millions. 
One can cite various battles between Muhammad and his adversaries, 
which were more in the nature of experiments or feelers without any final 
outcome, and it is difficult to decide whether fate or more realistic factors 
were what finally determined the development of events. Beyond any 
doubt, however, one can justifiably say that without the conceptual 
system known as Islam, those developments would have remained out¬ 
side the realm of possibility. The ideology of Islam is solely what gave the 
Arabs the united strength to subdue their overwhelming opponents. Even 
if there were many who were motivated mainly by the attraction ofbooty, 
one must remember that if these were bands of marauders who were 
merely interested in spoils and naught else, they could not have stood up in 
battle as did the Arabs. One cannot see in this ideological moment, a 
facade grafted upon deeper motives but rather an essential factor in this 
historical process. 2 

[14] One can put forward various objections to the point of view which 
stresses the religious moment. It is possible to claim that in fact, the true 
and faithful followers of Muhammad, who genuinely and sincerely identi¬ 
fied with Islam, were but a small group of people. This becomes evident in 

1 On the relationship of Muhammad with the Jews of Medina, see M. Gil, IOS, 4:44, 1974 
and idem., JSAI, 4:203, 1984. 

2 Watt, IQ, 1(1953), 102, lecture held at the Univ. of Manchester; see Bousquet, Levi della 
Vida Presentation Volume, I, 52-60, who has relevant remarks on the importance of the 
religious moment and also his article in SI, 6:37, 1956. 


13 



THE CONQUEST 


the traditional Muslim texts, particularly those describing what happened 
after the Prophet’s death. Many of the sahaba, the Prophet’s disciples and 
the first followers of Islam, did not take any part in the battles in Palestine, 
Syria and Persia. The Bedouin, devoid of any religious inclination, were 
the mainstay and composition of the Muslim battalions, and they could 
only learn about Islam from hearsay. All they asked for was material gain 
and the worldly goods they saw around them - but no religious creed. 
Simply speaking, they merely looked for opportunities to plunder and 
pillage the subdued populations. Now we are only one move from the 
opposite approach, which sees the genuine reasons for the uninhibited 
Muslim offensive from inside the Arab peninsula as being purely ma¬ 
terialistic. The Arabian peninsula, and especially Hijaz, was far from being 
a paradise. It had few natural resources and produced insufficient crops to 
satisfy the immediate needs of the Bedouin population, which throughout 
this period lived in a state of near-starvation. Indeed there was a jihad, an 
effort on the part of the Bedouin, but this was merely an effort to extricate 
themselves from the hardship of desert life. The quality of the land in the 
peninsula and the economic deprivation that resulted from it, claims one 
scholar, would eventually have brought about the migration of masses of 
Bedouin northward in the seventh century, even if a Prophet had not 
arisen in their midst who preached the unity of God and heralded the Day 
of Reckoning. 3 

[15] Facts of this kind show up here and there in the Muslim traditions, 
and the virtual starvation of the Muslims at the outset of their campaigns is 
not concealed. One of the chief Muslim commanders during the invasion 
of Palestine, ‘Amr ibn al-‘As, who was later to head the army which 
conquered Egypt, met a Byzantine commander in the Gaza area. The 
latter tried to convince him of the so-called ‘family ties’ that existed 
between the two camps - the Christians and the Muslims. ‘Very well’, 
‘Amr replied, ‘then we shall take half your rivers and towns and in return, 
give you half of our thistles and stones’. 4 

[16] Apart from the religious and economic motives, there are some 
among contemporary Arab savants who perceive an ethnic motivation 
behind the conquests. They see Arabs everywhere: even the Canaanites 
and the Philistines were Arabs, according to their theories. This applies to 
an even greater degree to the population of Palestine and Syria in the 
seventh century, who were certainly Semites. Thus, according to their 
claims, the conquering Arab forces in the course of their battles, actually 


3 See Snouck Hurgronje, Selected Studies, 30. 

4 See Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 461. 


14 



THE CAUSES OF THE GREAT JIHAD (SECS. 12-17] 

encountered their own people or at least members of their own race who 
spoke the same language. 5 

[17] This is of course a very distorted view: Semitism is not a race and 
only relates to a sphere of language. The populations met along the route 
of battle, living in cities or the countryside, were not Arabs and did not 
speak Arabic. We do know of Bedouin tribes at that time who inhabited 
the borderlands and the southern desert of Palestine, west of the Euphrates 
(Hira) in the Syrian desert, Palmyra, and elsewhere. But the cultivated 
inner regions and the cities were inhabited by Jews and Christians who 
spoke Aramaic. They did not sense any special ties to the Bedouin; if 
anything it was the contrary. Their proximity and the danger of an 
invasion from that quarter disturbed their peace of mind and this is amply 
reflected both in the writings of the Church Fathers and in Talmudic 
sources. 

The remarkable success of the Arab wars of conquest is more than 
comprehensible when seen against the background of the disastrous 
internal conditions that prevailed within the two great powers that were 
the object of attack. For our purposes, it is worthwhile to consider the 
declining state of affairs within the Byzantine empire, which to a certain 
extent explains its overwhelming defeat. On this subject we have data 
from Egypt, where documents have been preserved, relating mainly to 
the circumstances in the army, which undoubtedly also apply to the rest of 
the realm, including Palestine. Though numerically strong, the army was 
very badly organised. It was divided according to geographic regions and 
lacked a unified command. At its head stood the duces (dux in the singular, 
which is the dukas in Talmudic literature), who divided the authoritative 
power amongst themselves and whose military status allowed them many 
rights of possession to the inhabitants’ property. A universal characteristic 
was their indifference to matters for which they were responsible. The 
conditions prevalent in the army were also mirrored, to a large extent, in 
the social and general administrative conditions of Byzantine Egypt. A 
study of papyri dating from the period before the Muslim conquest shows 
that the status of the landed aristocracy entitled them to many privileges 
and they were actually not answerable to the central authorities. On the 
one hand, some of the Christian scholars have exaggerated the importance 
of this factor, trying to emphasize the degeneration and corruption which 
existed throughout the Byzantine empire, and clearly intending to prove 
that basically, this was not the victory of Islam over Christianity but the 
downfall of a weak and crumbling government. The Arabs themselves 
were well aware of this state of affairs. In this context, the remarks of‘Amr 

5 Hitti, History, 143: ‘The native Semites of Syria and Palestine as well as the Hamites of 
Egypt looked upon the Arabian newcomers as nearer of kin than their hated and oppressive 
alien overlords.’ Cf. Vasiliev, History, I, 209, and see the discussion below. 


15 



THE CONQUEST 


ibn al-‘As in a letter in which he tries to convince the caliph ‘Umar ibn 
al-Khattab to permit him to set forth on an expedition to conquer Egypt, 
are typical: ‘For it [Egypt] is foremost in the way of possessions and 
weakest in battle and warfare’. 6 

A balanced approach to this subject should take into consideration a 
fusion of all these factors, for we shall find the most genuine explanation 
for the success of the Arab conquerors in a combination of influences: the 
military power that derived from their unity and their attachment to the 
new religious vision; their strong desire to bring about a basic change in 
their living conditions by dominating the nearby cultivated regions; and 
the internal weaknesses of their enemies. 


The tribes and the population of Palestine 

[18] There has always been a profound contrast between the permanent 
inhabitants, the city and town dwellers, and the nomadic tribes. The 
ancient kingdoms were generally concerned with the welfare and security 
of the inhabitants living close to their border and in the deserts. They built 
fortifications along the borders for this purpose, and kept a sharp and 
constant watch in order to prevent nomads from penetrating and attacking 
the country. The reservations expressed by the local inhabitants, and one 
may even venture to say the fear of the Bedouin, are amply reflected in the 
sources, both in the T almudic writings and in those of the Church Fathers. 
At the same time, we are well aware that the borders were not hermetically 
sealed. There is evidence of substantial and lesser incursions, and what is 
more, trading relations did exist, with the camel caravans from Mecca 
regularly making their way northward year by year in order to carry on 
their trading activities. 

According to Arab sources, the Prophet’s ancestors had close contact 
with certain areas of Palestine, particularly Gaza. It is told that Hashim, the 
grandfather of the Prophet’s father, ‘Abdallah, died in Gaza (in the latter 
half of the sixth century) while staying there to conduct his business 
affairs. Of the Prophet’s father as well, it is said that he used to trade in 
Gaza, travelling with the caravans of the Qurashites. 7 

6 Yaqut, Bui dan, III, 893. 

7 See Ibn Sa‘d, 1(1), 46, 61; also IV(1), 12, in a tradition attributed to Abu ‘Abdallah 
(evidently Muhammad b. ‘Aziz) al-Ayll saying, that the Bishop of Gaza came to the Prophet 
when he was in Tabuk (see on the Tabuk expedition below) and told him ‘In my town 
[Gaza] Hashim and ‘Abd Shams [Hashim’s brother] died when they came on business, and 
here are their moneys’ (or property). See also Baladhuri, Ansab , I, 58, 63f, 92, who also 
adds that Hashim was twenty-five-years-old at his death; some say twenty. As to ‘Ab¬ 
dallah, he took ill in Gaza but was brought to Medina and there he died at the age of 
twenty-five or twenty-eight. Ibn Qutayba, Ma'drif 71; Isbahanl, Aghdni, VI, 94: the people 
of Mecca had to stop their trading because of the Muslim attacks. When an armistice was 

16 



THE TRIBES AND THE POPULATION OF PALESTINE [SECS. 18-26] 


[19] Some of the writings of the Church Fathers who were active in 
Palestine describe Arab raids in the period before Islam and the murdering 
and marauding they carried out. These accounts are particularly con¬ 
cerned with the monasterial estates. For instance, Ioannes Moschus (who 
fled from Palestine because of the Persians, lived in Rome towards the end 
of his life and died in 620), writes about what happened to Gerontius, 
father of the monastery of St Euthymius. He was staying at the time in the 
mountains near the Dead Sea (evidently in the neighbourhood of Ein- 
Gedi) together with two other monks, and they witnessed an attack on a 
monk which led to his death on the shores of the Dead Sea at the hands of 
Saracens, during which one of the attackers even beheaded the monk. 
Gerontius adds that the Arab was punished immediately after the murder¬ 
ous act by the hand of God, when an enormous bird snatched him in his 
beak, carried him aloft and then threw him to the ground. He also tells the 
story of Father Nicolaus from a monastery along the banks of the Jordan, 
where the Saracens carried out a raid in the days of the emperor Mauricius 
(582—602). These were the Saracens of Names (evidently Nu‘man). He 
saw a group of three Arabs holding a young captive whom they had meant 
to have sacrificed by their priest ( hiereus ). A heavenly miracle occurred and 
the three began to fight among themselves until all were dead, and the 
captive remained in the monastery. 8 


arrived at with Muhammad (spring, 628), trading was resumed. Abu Sufyan ibn Barb 
(father of the Umayyads) then went to Palestine, precisely when Heraclius conquered 
Jerusalem again and returned the cross. Ibn Khaldun, ‘Ibar, I, 61, quotes these comments as 
having been made by a poet from Gaza, Ibrahim b. Yahya (born in 1049/50), and points out 
that it is not known in Gaza where Hashim is buried, although he is buried there. 
Concerning trade relations between Mecca and Medina and Palestine, see also Couret, La 
Palestine, 219f and the sources he lists there. 

8 See Ioannes Moschus, Praturn spirituale, MPG, 87(3), chs. 21, 155; ch. 99 also contains the 
story of the monk attacked by Arabs (p. 2958); see additional details on attacks by Arabs on 
monks, in Couret, La Palestine , 92f, 144f; Justinian decided to build the monastery of St 
Catherine after pleas from the monks in the Sinai, who suffered immensely from Arab raids 
(see ibid., pp. 187f). Gregorius, who followed as abbot of the monastery at the time of 
Justin II (565-578; apparently around 575) had to withstand a heavy siege imposed on the 
monastery by the Arabs called Skenetai (‘dwellers in tents’), according to Euagrius, MPG, 
86(2), 2804; see the apologetic remarks of Edelby, POC, 6(1956), 101, to the effect that the 
early forays into Palestine, Arabia and Syria were peaceful ones (!) and that the Arabs bore 
no resentment towards the empire and did not disturb the local population. To his credit, 
however, one has to note that he did add the remark; ‘except when they went out on raids’ 
(‘sauf quand ils se mettaient a razzier*). As opposed to this, see the many detailed statements 
gathered by Constantelos, Byzantion, 42(1972), 327-332, from ancient Christian sources: 
Nilus points out that the Arabs are not interested in production, in commerce or in 
farming, but only in plundering and wars, like blood-thirsty wild beasts. See his remarks 
on the Arabs on pp. 639ff; Narrationes, MPG, 79, 627f. Methodius, Bishop of Patara (in 
Asia Minor) also describes the Arabs in dark colours, and points out that they do not respect 
either education or social institutions. The apocalypse of pseudo-Methodius also mentions 
that they have no respect for the elderly, for orphans, for pregnant women or priests. 


17 



THE CONQUEST 


[20] One of the means by which the Byzantine ruler hoped to prevent 
the nomadic tribes’ invasion into Palestinian territory was to form al¬ 
liances with those tribes who inhabited regions along the borders. These 
tribes assumed responsibility for the security of the area in exchange for 
certain benefits and subsidies. Thus in the early stages of Islam, the tribes 
served as a serious deterrent, as we shall soon see, in the face of the 
Muslims’ first attempts at penetration northward. The Muslims, 
however, placed great emphasis on forming tribal alliances and tried to 
attract these tribes to their own camp. 9 

[21) The principal tribe occupying the desert area south of Palestine was 
that of the Banujudham. According to Arab sources, their land was called 
Madyan and its largest town was Hisma. Antoninus Placentinus (of 
Piacenza, Italy), who visited the region in ca. 570, mentions Arabs whom 
he calls Midianites, encountered in Eilat en route to Sinai. According to 
him, they claimed descent from Jethro, Moses’ father-in-law, as it is also 
said, in Arab traditions, of the Banujudham, that they were the kinsfolk of 
Shu'ayb, whom some sources identify with Jethro. An important branch 
of this tribe were the Banu Wa’il (etymologically the equivalent of the 
Hebrew name Yo’el), a certain part of which was inclined towards Ju¬ 
daism, as were other clans of the Banujudham. A few actually converted. 
On the other hand, there was an element of Christian influence among 
some sectors of the tribe as a result of their connections with Byzantium. 10 


Aritonius of Chozeba, in his study on the life of St Georgius of Chozeba (who was his 
teacher), describes the slaughter of the monks in Chozeba. See Vita S. Georgii Chozebitae, 
Anal.Boll., 7:95,1888, 129f. Maximus Confessor: ‘They behave like beasts of prey though 
they look like human beings. ’ But even Constantelos feels the need to insert reservations in 
his article from time to time, when he points to a fact which is an exaggeration or to 
another which in reality applies to the Persians and not to the Arabs. This is an example of 
the reading of ancient texts in accordance with contemporary considerations. See further 
discussion of the subject in Christides, Balkan Studies, 10:315, 1969. 

9 See Cheira, 18f, 30. 

10 See Antoninus, 113f (MPL, 1, 72, 9121). See Hamadani, Jazira, I, 129f; Bakri, 289, 446, 
1122, 1214, 1247. Yaqut, Buldan, l, 212, 267, 919f; II, 794; Ya'qubI, Buldan, 33; Waqidi, 
28, 555f, 990, 1032. Hieronymus (Jerome) and his commentary on Ezek. xxv:l-3, MPL, 
25, 244, stresses that the Midianites are Tsmaelitai et Agareni qui nunc Sarraceni appellan- 
tur’. In his commentary on Jer. iii:2 (Lift up thine eyes ... as the Arabian in the wilder¬ 
ness), MPL, 24, 699f, he points out that the verse refers to a thief or a raven, but it is also 
possible to use Arab as the interpretation: ‘potest et Arabes significare quae gens latrociniis 
dedita usque hodie incursat terminos Palaestinae et descendentibus dejerusalem in Jericho 
obsidet vias’ (‘for these people, who are occupied with thieving, until today steal through 
the borders of Palestine and rob those who go down from Jerusalem to Jericho’). See my 
article in JSAI, 4:203, 1984, in which I point out that the image of Shu'ayb developed from 
that of the Biblical Balaam, prophet of the Moabites and the Midianites. There I also 
uphold the parallel between the traditions on the spreading ofjudaism amongst the Banu 
Judham and some of the Talmudic traditions which speak of the proselytes, ‘the sons of 
Jethro’ or ‘the children of the Kenite, Moses’ father-in-law’. SeePT, Bikkurim, i, 64a; BT 

18 



THE TRIBES AND THE POPULATION OF PALESTINE [SECS. 18-26) 


[22] Farwa b. ‘Amr, one of the Banu Judham and the governor in 
southern Trans-Jordan on behalf of the Byzantines (‘in ‘Amman, which is 
in the land of the Balqa”), accepted Islam and even sent a special mess¬ 
enger from his tribe with a gift for the Prophet, consisting of a mule, an 
ass, and expensive robes of fine linen and samite embroidered in gold 
thread. Eventually he was arrested by the Byzantines and crucified by 
order of the emperor near the ‘Ifra River in Palestine. 11 

[23-24] Both the Banujudham and the Banu Ghassan, a large federation 
of tribes living in Northern Palestine and Syria, were the major Byzantine 
bulwark in their battle against the Arab tribes, and some of them were 
constant in their resistance to the faith of Islam. After the battle of the 
Yarmuk, records one source, the Banu Ghassan were asked to pay a land 
tax and a poll tax (kharaj and jizya), because they evidently preferred to 
remain Christians. Their leader, Jabala b. al-Ayham, absolutely refused to 
do so, claiming that they were Arabs, that is to say Bedouin, and therefore 
exempt from paying taxes. They even threatened to move to Byzantine 
land. The caliph ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab, had to give way. A third alliance of 
tribes should be mentioned in this connection. The Banu Lakhm, whose 
major strength was centred in the region of the northern Euphrates 
but who also had branches within Palestinian territory, mixed with the 
Banujudham. According to tribal genealogical records, Lakhm were the 
brothers of Judham. From the Arab sources, we get the impression that 
these tribes, allies of the Byzantines on the eve of the Islamic conquests, 
roved about the Palestinian border lands and concentrated in Arabia, that 
is Provincia Arabia, the separate administrative area established by Trajan 
in 106 and also known later by the name of Palaestina tertia (the third). 12 
In an Arab source, this region is called al-Takhum, a loan-word from 
Hebrew, as it undoubtedly was also called by the Jews. In DinawarT, we 


Sanhedrin, 104a, 106; Pesiqata of R. Kahana (ed. Mandelbaum), 1, 36; Sijre Zuta (ed. 
Horowitz), 263f; Mekhilta de R. Shimon {ed. Hoffmann), 92; Mekhilta de R. lshm. (ed. Ish 
Shalom), 60a; see additional sources in Ginzberg, The Legends of the Jews, VI, 113f, in nos. 
782, 783. According to certain Arab sources, the Banu Nadir and the Banu Qurayza, the 
major Jewish tribes in Medina, were descendants of the Banu Judham. See my afore¬ 
mentioned article for a detailed discussion and sources on the entire subject of the Banu 
Judham. 

11 [bn Sa‘d, VII (2), 148, Ibn Hisham, 958. 

12 Ya'qubi, Ta’rikh , II, 160f, 168. The prophet negotiated with the Banu Ghassan and even 
sent an emissary, Shuja 1 b. Wahb of the Banu Asad, to ‘the King of the Balqa’ in Palestine’ 
(the land of al-Sham), who was Harith b. Abi Shamir, the Ghassanl, See Nawawl, 
Tahdhih, I, 35. See the opinion of Ashtor, who claimed that the Byzantines set up a real 
buffer state for the Banu Ghassan, which covered the whole of the Hawran, Phoenicia, 
northern Trans-Jordan and other parts of Palestine: Ashtor, A Social and Economic History, 
12 . 


19 



THE CONQUEST 

find the expression takhum ard al-‘arab, or ‘the Takhum, which is the land 
of the Arabs’. 13 

[25] Talmudic writings do not often praise the Arabs. Reservations 
regarding them and their customs are perceptible in a number of instances 
in the Babylonian Talmud and the Midrashic literature. Perhaps the 
sharpest expression is to be found in the Babylonian Talmud in connection 
with the daughter of Naqdimon ben Gurion ‘who was picking barley 
grains in the dung of Arab cattle’, one of the stories of the destruction of 
the Temple, whose moral is that ‘when they do not do the will of God, He 
delivers them into the hands of a base people, and not only in the hands of a 
base people but into the power of the beasts of the base people’. There is 
also condemnation of the Arabs’ treatment of refugees of the revolt (either 
the Great Revolt or that of Bar Kokhba) who fled from the Romans to 
Arabia. 14 

[26] Some scholars view the stories of the Church Fathers as well as 
some comments in the Talmudic literature with a critical eye or assume 
them to be unbalanced, one-sided or exaggerated, and so on. But this 
approach bears some bending of the historical truth. In fact, such episodes 
reflect the attitude of the towns and villages in Palestine quite accurately; 
the attitude of a sedentary population, of farmers and craftsmen, toward 
nomads whose source of income is the camel and who frequently attack 
the towns, pillage and slaughter the inhabitants and endanger the lives of 
the wayfarer. These sources completely contradict the argument men¬ 
tioned earlier on, to the effect that the villagers and townsmen in Palestine 
accepted the invasion of those tribes bearing the banner of Islam with open 
arms because of their so-called racial affinity. 

I have already described the political and military troubles endured by 
the Byzantine empire following the death of Justinian and afterwards. 
There is no questioning the fact that these difficulties contributed con¬ 
siderably to the success of the Muslim wars of conquest. The local Byzan¬ 
tine administration was inefficient as was its military command. Quite 
detailed information regarding this state of affairs has been preserved in 
Egyptian papyri and one can undoubtedly assume that there was little 
difference between Egypt and Palestine in terms of administration and 
military matters. The Arab traditions are familiar with the image of the 
bitrtq, i.e. patricius, the Byzantine estate owner, who also served as com¬ 
mander in the army, whether in Egypt, Syria or Palestine. On hearing the 
news of the approaching Muslim army, the dux of the province of Thebes 

13 SeeDInawarl, 8: Sodom is situated between the land ofUrdunn (Jordan) and the Takhum, 
land of the Arabs. 

14 BT, Ket., 66b, PT, Taaniot, ii, 69b; Lam. Rabba (Buber), 108; see also BT, Ket., 72b, 
about an Arab woman who spun in the market place, which is not fitting for a woman. 
The Talmudic sources dealing with Arabs were collated by Krauss, ZDMG , 70:321,1916. 


20 



THE FIRST INCURSIONS [SECS. 27-30] 


hastily collected whatever sums he was able to gather in taxes, and ran 
off with the money, leaving the region without leadership or protec¬ 
tion. 15 


The first incursions: Dhat Atlah, Mu’ta 

[27-28] In the eighth year of the hijra, 629, Muhammad decided to 
increase his military activities and examine the possibilities of penetrating 
the Byzantine domain. At the end of the previous summer, in the year 628, 
the Muslims had taken control of the Khaybar region, situated 150 miles 
north of Medina - an agricultural region inhabited by Jews. Now those 
Jews occupying the land became tenants of the Muslims and had to hand 
over half the date crops. The palm trees, which were formerly their own 
property, now became the assets of the Muslim community. The same 
fate also lay in store for the Jews of Fadak, another farming region near 
Khaybar, and this also applied to the inhabitants ofWadf 1-Qura (Valley of 
the villages) on the Palestinian border. At the same time, older members of 
the Islamic community who had fled from Mecca to Ethiopia some 
thirteen years earlier, in 615, now came and joined the Muslim camp. 
In the interim, Islam had accumulated considerable strength and Mecca 
itself would soon fall into Islamic hands. The Prophet could not ig¬ 
nore Byzantium’s inherent weakness, despite the fact that it had just re¬ 
gained control of Palestine and was celebrating its victory over the 


15 See Maspero, Organisation, 119-132; Gelzer, Studien, 97ff; Bell, JEA, 4(1917), 106; Vasi- 
liev. History, L, 210. An area on which we have little genuine information with regard to 
Palestine is the attitude of various Christian sects towards the conquerors, whether they 
were influenced by the hatred felt towards the official, that is the Byzantine Church and 
towards Byzantine rule itself. In this area, too, one can assume that there was some 
similarity to what was happening in Egypt. For this, today we have at our disposal Jarry, 
BIFAO, 62:173, 1964; Annales islamologiques, 6:1,1966. He points out in his studies that the 
descriptions in the Muslim chronicles are simplistic. According to them, the Copts 
supported the conquerors, as they had suffered from religious persecution, while 
their opponents, apart from the soldiers, were the Greek-speaking collaborators of the 
Byzantines, as well as the Melkites, followers of the Byzantine Church. The 
conqueror of Egypt, ‘Amr ibn al-‘As, requited the Copts by handing over to them the 
churches of the Melekites. Actually, he contends, there is a difference in attitudes to the 
Muslims within each of the two parties, the aristocrats (the blues) and the populists (the 
greens). But it was precisely the blues, who had a great deal of influence at court, who 
asked for a policy of withdrawal, at least temporarily, in order to organise their forces 
properly, as Heraclius did in his war against the Persians. Apart from this, the blues 
were more oriented towards the West, that is, they wanted to come to some agreement 
with Rome in particular and were less interested in the Eastern regions. It was the 
greens who wanted to organise forceful opposition to the Muslim invaders, which 
led, according to Jarry, to the wholesale annihilation of the greens’ towns by the Mus¬ 
lims. 


21 



THE CONQUEST 


Persians. 16 Muhammad still hoped to lure the Arab tribes dwelling along 
the Palestinian borders to his side. At this stage, the Muslims’ reconnais¬ 
sance raid into Palestine is mentioned at a site called Dhat Adah (appar¬ 
ently ‘the place of the acacias’). Leading this foray stood Ka‘b b. ‘Umayr 
al-Ghifari. This attempt ended bitterly for the Muslims: everyone taking 
part in the action was killed except for one wounded man who was taken 
for dead and afterwards succeeded in reaching the Prophet. Muhammad 
wanted to despatch an expeditionary force to that site to punish the tribes 
who had slain his men, but when he learned that in the meantime they had 
evacuated the place, he abandoned the project. 17 

[29] Some weeks later, in September 629, Muhammad again sent his 
cavalry to raid Palestine, this time to a place called Mu’ta. The account of 
this action is to be found in its most complete form in Waqidi. As he 
records it, the Prophet sent al-Harith b. ‘Umayr al-Azdi with a letter to 
‘the king of Busra’. On arriving in Mu’ta, he found his way barred by 
Shurahbll b. ‘Amr, a man of the Banu Ghassan, who asked him where he 
was heading. On being told that his goal was Palestine and that he was an 
emissary from Muhammad, he was ordered to be tied up, bound and 
beheaded - a fate never before endured by one of Muhammad’s mess¬ 
engers. When Muhammad was informed of what had befallen his mess¬ 
enger, he quickly organised a force of3,000 Muslim cavalry troops, led by 
Zaydb. Haritha. Should he fall in battle, Ja'farb. AblTalib (the brother of 
‘All), would replace him, and if he too should be killed, he was to be 
replaced by ‘Abdallah b. Rawaha. Shurahbll b. ‘Amr soon learned of the 
Muslim army’s advance. They camped for some days in Wadi’l-Qura 
(whose inhabitants were Jews). At that point, Sadus, Shurahbil’s brother, 
attacked the Muslims but was killed in action. Shurahbll took fright and 
decided to entrench himself against the probable onslaught. Then the 
Muslims advanced until Ma‘an, whereupon they were informed that 


16 Knowledge of the Byzantine victory and the death of the Persian king on 29 February 628, 
reached Muhammad as already mentioned, at the time of the agreement of Hudaybiyya. 
The Persian defeat also spelled the weakening of the status of the Jews of north Hijaz, in 
Khaybar, and in other places near the borders of Palestine. The agreement signed by 
Muhammad with the people of Mecca in which the latter benefited by various con¬ 
cessions, was aimed at giving the Muslims a free hand in subduing this Jewish region. In 
the Muslim sources, there is mention of an anti-Muslim pact between the Jews of Khaybar 
and the people of Mecca, but this became invalid with the signing of the Hudaybiyya 
agreement. See in this connection the article by M. Lecker, JSAI, 5:1, 1984. 

17 Ibn Ishaq, in Ibn Hisham, 983; Waqidi, 752f; Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 1601 (calling the leader of 
the raid: ‘Amrb.Ka'b, and noting that he had a total of fifteen men with him. According to 
him these were the same Arabs who attacked the Muslims of the Banu Quda‘a and their 
leader named Sadus. The Banu Quda'a were made by the Muslims the target of their 
attack at Mu’ta, as we shall see below. Even before that, evidently in the summer of628, 
there were Muslim actions against the Banujudham in southern Trans-Jordan (see below); 
cf. Caetani, II, 79. 


22 



THE FIRST INCURSIONS [SECS. 27-30] 


Heraclius (WaqidI evidently refers to the Byzantine army rather than the 
emperor himself) had moved southward and was encamped in ‘Moab, 
which is the land of the Balqa’ ’ with a force of some 100,000 men of the 
Bahra, Wa’il, Lakhm andjudham tribes, headed by a member of the Ball 
tribe named Malik b. Rafila. The Muslims waited two days before writing 
to the Prophet to inform him of these new circumstances. In order to raise 
their spirits, ‘Abdallah b. Rawaha reminded them how they had with¬ 
stood, a handful against many, in their earlier battles. With the onset of the 
battle, the Muslim commanders Zayd b. Haritha and Ja‘far b. Abi Talib 
were killed one after the other, and subsequently the third commander, 
‘Abdallah b. Rawaha, also fell. According to some traditions, Khalid b. 
al-Walld was put in command, eventually becoming one of the most 
important commanders in the campaign of the conquest of Palestine. He 
had only joined the Muslim ranks a short time earlier. Withdrawal was 
inavoidable. Returning from Mu’ta to Medina, they were greeted by 
shouts of derision and were accused of desertion. But Muhammad stood 
by them, stating that they had withdrawn their forces (in order to reorgan¬ 
ise their troops) and had not deserted. As we have seen, the battle took 
place in the neighbourhood of Moab, and there are sources which claim 
that it was fought in masharif al-balqa’, or the hills of Moab. 18 

[30] The assault on Mu’ta is also described by the Byzantine writer 
Theophanes. He speaks of four commanders appointed by Muhammad to 
lead the attacking forces. He also mentions the place Moukheon Kome, 
which may mean ‘Village of the Moukhaians’ with Theodore in charge 
(bikarios). In this version, Theodore learns well in advance that the 
Muslims are about to attack (a similar account can also be found in Arab 
sources) from someone named Koutaba, who was a ‘Korasenos’. Evi¬ 
dently the person mentioned was an Arab named Qutayba of the Quraysh 
tribe, who knew and could enlighten them as to the exact time the 
Muslims were intending to launch an attack, and thus Theodore stole 
a march on the Muslim forces and took the offensive at a site called 

18 See WaqidI, 755-769. He tells here of the incident of al-Nu‘man, son of Pinhas the Jew, 
who was in the presence of the Prophet when he appointed the three commanders, and 
told him that if he was indeed a prophet, the three would be killed; for when the prophets 
of the children oflsrael appointed commanders and designated ‘if so-and-so is killed’, all 
the commanders were killed, even if a hundred had been appointed. Ibn Ishaq, in Ibn 
Hisham, 791-802, adds that apart from the 100,000 unbelievers, tribesmen, there was a 
similar number of regular Byzantine soldiers. Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 1610-1618; Ibn Sa‘d, 
11(1), 92; IV(1), 27: Ja‘far b. Abi Talib was killed in the battle of Mu’ta, in the Balqa’; 
Mas'udI, Tanbth, 265; Ibn Sayyid al-Nas, ‘Uyun, II, 153; Nawawl, Tahdhib , I, 265: 
‘Abdallah b. Rawaha was killed in the battle of Mu’ta and did not leave any heirs. SuyutI, 
Khasa’is, II, 70-72; Ibn Kathlr, Biddya, IV, 244. The Balqa’, it appears from the sources, is 
southern Trans-Jordan. Ya'qubi quotes a tradition indicating that this name derives from a 
man named Baliq, who metjoshua bin Nun there. See Ta’rikh , I, 47; onja'far b. Abi Talib 
see Ibn Sa‘d, IV(1), 27. Cf. on the raid on Mu’ta: Caetani, II, 80-90. 


23 



THE CONQUEST 


Mothous. We learn further from Theophanes that the Muslims intended 
to wield their swords against the Arab tribes on that very spot. Those 
tribes were about to offer up a huge sacrifice in honour of their gods on 
that very day. Which goes to prove that Christianity had taken only a 
marginal and superficial hold on these tribes who lived under Byzantine 
rule. 19 


Muhammad and the Palestinian tribes 

[31] The Mu’ta affair stresses the fact that Muhammad’s goal during his 
last years was to compel the tribes along the Palestinian borders to accept 
Islam and consolidate around him. He decided to adopt towards those 
tribes outside the Arabian peninsula, particularly those under Byzantine 
control, the same policy that he had successfully applied to the Arabian 
peninsula; that of cruel campaigns accompanied by rebuke and chastise¬ 
ment while proposing peace and security to those who joined his ranks. 
However, this policy did not produce notable results during his lifetime, 
and these tribes, such as the Ghassan, Quda'a, Judham and others, 
remained loyal to their Byzantine masters. It was only after Muhammad’s 
death that his vision of taking over the palaces of Byzantium and Persia 
materialised. 20 

[32] The first cracks in the surface of these tribes’ loyalty to the Byzan¬ 
tines had apparently begun to appear during the Prophet’s lifetime. As we 
have seen, the traditions preserved the memory of Farwa b. ‘Amr of 
Judham, whom the Byzantines had placed in a position of authority and 
who lost his life by converting to Islam. Evidently Islam had infiltrated 
into his tribe here and there, but on the whole it was rejected by most of the 
tribesmen. Rifa'a b. Zayd, a member of the clan of Dubayb, who be¬ 
longed to thejudham, appeared before Muhammad in the summer of 628 
(after the armistice with Quraysh and before the campaign against Khay- 
bar), bringing the Prophet the gift of a slave and accepting Islam with all 

19 In Mas'udI, TanbTh, 265, the name of the commander is Thiadux (see there different 
versions in the notes, but it seems that the original version had Theodoros and this was 
evidently taken from Theophanes). This is one of the rare occasions in which the Muslim 
chronicles (at least Mas'udI) compared their own information with that found in the 
Byzantine sources, just as Theophanes also knew what was said in the Muslim sources, in 
addition to his own. See Theophanes, 335; cf. De Goeje, Mimoire , 4—8, who speaks of the 
interpretation of the name of the place in Theophanes and mentions that he possibly 
intended Ma'an. 

20 See what the traditions say about the Prophet during the digging of the trench in Medina 
(the khandaq): when his pickaxe strikes a stone and the sparks fly, he sees in them the future 
conquests in Yemen, in Byzantine and Persian regions (Ibn Hisham, 673; WaqidI, 450; 
Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 1469). In Tabari, the version is that the Prophet saw in these sparks the 
red palaces or fortresses of Byzantium, resembling the teeth of dogs (red, perhaps because 
of the name applied to Byzantium by the Jews - Edom). 


24 



MUHAMMAD AND THE PALESTINIAN TRIBES [SECS. 31-32] 

his heart. In return the Prophet gave him a letter addressed to his tribes¬ 
men, confirming that he was being sent to call them to join with God and 
His Messenger, and to inform them that they had an interim of two 
months to consider the matter. In the meantime, it seems that Muhammad 
sent additional emissaries to the tribes in Palestine. One of these, Dihya b. 
Khalifa al-Kalbi, on his return from the Palestinian area (according to the 
traditions, it was on his return from Qaysar, the Byzantine emperor, but 
the intention here is obviously to the place he returned from, i.e. a 
Byzantine domain, and it is certainly unlikely that he would have been on a 
mission to the emperor), was attacked by tribesmen of Judham. The 
Prophet then sent Zayd b. Haritha to attack the area inhabited by the 
Judham tribe, which is Hisma in southern Trans-Jordan. The Muslim 
force consisted of 500 cavalry troops, and they took captives and spoils. 
Afterwards the two sides made peace and the captives and spoils were 
returned, but this does not mean that the tribe converted to Islam, for as 
we shall see in subsequent events, this, the largest of the tribes living along 
the Palestinian borders, was still on the side of the Byzantines. 21 

Dhat al-Salasil 

[33] The defeat at Mu’ta may have placed the Muslim camp in an 
inferior position, as a result of the humiliating military setback. In order to 
prevent a decline in the prestige they enjoyed among the tribes, Mu¬ 
hammad hastened to organise a new force made up of 300 cavalry troops 
and attack the southern region of Trans-Jordan. In general, his target was 
Dhat al-Salasil, which was in the hands of the Banu ‘Udhra, a branch of the 
Judham. This force was meant to attack the Banu Ball and the Banu 
Quda‘a specifically (‘Udhra was also the name of the place, and is frequently 
mentioned as belonging to the Judham area. As to Ball, they were part of 
Quda‘a; but the sources are sometimes inconsistent, and the placing of the 
tribes is not always clear). ‘Amr b. al-‘As was appointed to head the force. 
He had been one of the most important figures in and commanders of 
Mecca, and in the past had participated in actions against the Muslims; but 
some time prior to this he had converted to Islam. Through his grand¬ 
mother, he had family connections with the Banu Ball, and the Prophet’s 
intention was, apart from the military operation, that he would try to 
induce the Palestinian border tribes to come over to Islam. On reaching 
Dhat al-Salasil, ‘Amr sensed that his forces would not withstand the 
opposition and he asked for assistance. The Prophet sent 200 more cavalry 
troops to his aid, under the command of Abu ‘Ubayda ibn al-Jarrah. These 

21 Ibn Hisharn, 962f; 975ff; Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 1740-1745; Waqidi, 557-560; Watt, Mu¬ 
hammad at Medina, 108f, changes the order and places the campaign of Zayd b. Haritha 
before the visit of Rifa‘a b. Zayd. 


25 



THE CONQUEST 


two armies contained some of the most important personalities in the 
Muslim camp, such as Abu Bakr, ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab, Sa‘d b. Abl 
Waqqas, and others. The local tribes fled in panic as the Muslim forces 
advanced. It appears that there was much in this campaign to encourage 
those who had joined Islam; and at the same time there was in this almost 
unbridled advance into Byzantine territory evidence of the unusual mili¬ 
tary deterioration of the empire. 22 


Tabuk 

[34] At the beginning of 630, Mecca was in the hands of the Muslims. 
This was the most important stage in the consolidation of the Arab tribes 
and their unification under the Islamic banner. Tribes which for gener¬ 
ations had fought with one another were now under a single leadership 
and shared a common awareness of a mission conferred on them by God: 
to inherit the earth from the wicked, or in other words, from Byzantium 
and Persia. The presence of constant tension from the increasing prep¬ 
arations for war was a vital necessity in the Muslim camp at the time. If the 
enormous quantity of contained energy implanted in the armed cavalry 
troops, members of the tribes, standing at the ready for Muhammad’s 
command, were to be consumed and wasted on local infighting and 
trivialities, it would quickly lead to the division of the camp and the return 
of civil wars. And so Muhammad started energetic preparations for an 
enormous campaign against Byzantium. This expedition was afterwards 
known as the Tabuk campaign. The development of events is described in 
Waqidi as follows. There were close connections between Medina and the 
region of Palestine, thanks to the farmers (the Nabateans, as the source 
calls them), who used to come to Medina to trade. It was from them that 
the Muslims learned what was happening in Byzantine territory. On 
orders from the Byzantines, evidently, the farmers began to spread ru¬ 
mours of large concentrations of the Byzantine army, who also had the 
support of the Arab tribes (Lakhm, Judham, Ghassan, ‘Amila), and that 
Heraclius was also stationed nearby in Hims. The Prophet started on a 
large scale recruiting exercise among the tribes who had joined Islam 
through loyal envoys sent to each tribe. While formerly he would conceal 
his intentions, making a secret of the target of the next assault and 
spreading a smokescreen over his actions for this purpose, this time he 
changed his usual practice and openly declared his intention and even 
demanded that the tribes contribute appreciable sums to finance the 

22 Ibn Hisham, 984f; Tabari, Ta’rtkh, I, 1604f; Waqidi, 769-774; see a survey of the ex¬ 
pedition to Dhat al-salasil in Caetani, II, lOOf. 


26 



TABUK [SECS. 34-35] 


campaign. Abu Bakr wanted to serve as an example to others and donated 
4,000 dirhams, which he claimed was two-thirds of his fortune. Other 
heads of the Muslim community also contributed generously, both in 
money and food, especially dates. The women, too, donated some of their 
ornaments, expensive finery and precious jewels. There were Muslims 
who wept at the thought that they could not arm themselves at their own 
expense to join the campaign and others had to supply them with what 
was needed. The traditions speak of an army of30,000-strong going out to 
battle. On their route, they passed through the Jewish settlements of 
Wadi’l-Qura, who honoured the Prophet by serving him with their 
typical dishes, according to the Muslim sources, which was the harts (or 
hartsa); only that according to the traditions of the descendants of these 
Jews (and they continued to dwell there for many generations), the Pro¬ 
phet imposed on them an annual tax of 40 wasqs of dates (a wasq is ca. 200 
kilograms, or the load that a camel can bear). 23 

[35] The Prophet and the Muslims remained in Tabuk for twenty days; 
the entire campaign lasting two months, from approximately mid- 
October to mid-December 630. Taking into consideration that Heraclius 
had abandoned his plans to attack, the Prophet decided to return to 
Medina as well, on the advice given him by ‘Umar. One can assume that 
the withdrawal was really caused by the low morale that was spreading 
th rough the Muslim camp, hints of which one can sense in the traditions 
that have been preserved. At this juncture, it should be pointed out that 
there were individuals within the Muslim camp itself who from the very 
outset were opposed to the expedition into Byzantine territory. The texts 
describe the reservations, evasiveness and even open opposition to this 
campaign. 24 


23 The people of Wadi’l-Qura (written Wadi al-qry, as in Arabic) are mentioned in a list of 
books from the Geniza: ‘Queries from people of Wadi’l-Qura to Sherira Gaon and Hayy 
Av (= father of the court), of blessed memory’, i.e. sent towards the end of the tenth 
century. See: Ginzberg, Geonica, II, 54, 61; similarly in Harkavy, Responsa, 94: ‘These 
were the queries asked by the people of Wadi’l Qura of our Master Sherira, Head of the 
Yeshiva, of blessed memory, and of Av, of blessed memory.’ The opening of the first 
query has been preserved. It is interesting that agricultural matters are being discussed, 
from which we learn that thejews of the area were still living on their own land (the query 
referred to the possession of date palm trees, a matter dealt with in the Mishna, Ba va Batra, 
v:6; in thePT, ibid., v, 15a; in BT, ibid., 81a-82a, 124a). In a letter from Solomon b. Judah 
written in around 1020, a certain Isaac from Wadi’l-Qura is mentioned, who ‘has to be 
excommunicated for what he has done to his family in Rabbat Bene ‘Ammon (‘Amman), 
for he deserted his wife, like a living widow for some four years now’: this same Isaac 
supplied the finances for commercial ventures, travelled to Egypt and returned ‘to his 
land’, that is to Wadi’l-Qura, and since then, there is no trace of his whereabouts. See 58, a, 
11. 20-25; on the wasq, see: Hinz, 53. 

24 Waqidi, 989-1022; [bn Hisham, 893-906; Tabari, Ta'rikh, I, 1692-1705. See a detailed 
review of the Tabuk campaign in Caetani, II, 238-253, 257ff. 


27 



THE CONQUEST 

The treaties with towns in the south of Palestine 


[36] Muslim tradition associates the Tabuk campaign with an important 
turning point in Muhammad’s attitude towards the Jews and the Chris¬ 
tians. While previously the Prophet had adopted a hard line towards the 
Jews in Medina - which was expressed in dispossession, eviction and even 
annihilation (Banu Qurayza), dispossessing the Jews in the towns in the 
northern part of the Arabian peninsula, depriving them of their property 
and turning them into tenants - he now altered his policy. During his own 
stay along the borders of Palestine, on land populated by Jews and Chris¬ 
tians, he seems to have sensed that a wiser policy would be to convince 
therm to acquiesce, to relinquish any intention of maintaining a military 
force and to rely on Muslims for their personal security and that of their 
possessions in exchange for the payment of taxes laid down according to 
special treaties. Letters of protection have been preserved which Mu¬ 
hammad issued to four towns during his stay in Tabuk, one in the 
northern Hijaz on the coast of the gulfofEilat, Maqna, and three others in 
Palestine: Eilat, Jarba and Adhruh. 

The following is the version of the letter to the people of Eilat: 

To Yuhanna b. Ruba and the worthies of Ayla, Peace be with you! Praised be 
Allah, there is no God save Him. I have no intention of fighting you before writing 
to you. Thou hast to accept Islam, or pay the tax, and obey God and His Messenger 
and the messengers of His Messenger, and do them honour and dress them in fine 
clothing, not in the raiment of raiders; therefore clothe Zayd in fine robes, for if 
you satisfy my envoys, you will satisfy me. Surely the tax is known to you. 
Therefore if you wish to be secure on land and on sea, obey God and his Messenger 
and you will be free of all payments that you owed the Arab [tribes] or non-Arabs, 
apart from the payment to God [which is] the payment of his Messenger. But be 
careful lest thou do not satisfy them, for then I shall not accept anything from you, 
but I shall fight you and take the young as captives and slay the elderly. For I am the 
true Messenger of God; put ye your trust in God and his books and his messengers 
and in the Messiah son of Maryam, for this is God’s word and I too, put my trust in 
Him, for he is the Messenger of God. Come then, before a calamity befalls you. As 
for me, I have already given my envoys instructions with regard to you: give 
Harmala three wasqs of barley, for Harmala is your well-wisher, for if it were not 
for God and if it were not for this, I would not be sending you messengers 
altogether, but rather you would be seeing the army. Therefore if you obey my 
messengers, you will have the protection of God and of Muhammad and all that 
stand at his side. My messengers are Shurahbil and Ubayy and Harmala and 
Hurayth b. Zayd who is one of the sons of the Banu Tayy’. All that they decide 
with regard to you shall be according to my wishes, and you will have the pro¬ 
tection of God and of Muhammad the Messenger of God. And peace will be with 
you if you obey me. And the people of Maqna thou shall lead back to their land . 25 

25 Ibn Sa‘d, 1(2), 28-29, see also p. 37: Yuhanna was king and bishop. According to Waqidi, 

1031, Yuhanna was son of Ru’ba, king of Ayla. Tabari, Ta’rtkh, I, 1702: ‘the owner of 


28 



TREATIES WITH TOWNS IN SOUTH PALESTINE [SECS, 36-40) 


[37] And this is the wording of the letter to the people of Adhruh, as 
Waqidi copied it; 

In the name of God, the merciful, the compassionate. From Muhammad the 
Prophet to the people of Adhruh; They [will live] securely by virtue of the letter of 
security from God and from Muhammad. They are due to pay 100 dinars, good 
and weighed, on every Rajab. And if one [of them] flees from the Muslims, out of 
fear and awe - for they feared the Muslims - they shall live securely until 
Muhammad will visit them before he leaves. 26 

[38] And the letter to the people of Maqna: 

To the sons of Hanina, who are Jews of Maqna, and the people of Maqna, near 
Ayla. Your request has reached me [which was sent] when you returned to your 
village. With the arrival of this letter your security is ensured and you are granted 
God’s protection and that of his Messenger; God’s Messenger forgives you the 
wickedness you have done and for all the sins you have committed. Therefore you 
are granted God’s protection and that of his Messenger; no one will do you 
injustice or harm, for it is the Messenger of God himself who gives you protection 
from what he himself will not do to you. Your arms belong to the Messenger of 
God; as well as all the slaves that are with you, and the rings, apart from what the 
Messenger of God, or the envoy of the Messenger of God, will allow you to keep. 
And from now onwards you will owe a quarter of your date harvest and a quarter 
of your fishing yield, and a quarter of the yarn spun by your women. Except for 
these you will be free of any levy or impressment. If you will listen and obey, the 
Messenger of God will respect the honourable amongst you and forgive the sinners 
amongst you. And for the information of the believers and the Muslims: anyone 
coming to the people of Maqna who is concerned with their well-being will 
benefit; and anyone who intends doing them harm will suffer harm. There will be 
no chief over you other than one of you or one of the Messenger of God’s people. 
And peace. 27 


Ayla’ [sahib], similarly also Baladhuri, Futiih, 60. According to Waqidi, the tax levied on 
the people of Ayla was 300 dinars annually, for there were 300 men there. See also Ibn 
Sa‘d, ibid., 377; Ibn Hisham, 902; Mas'udi, Tanbih, 272 states that Yuhanna was bishop of 
Ayla. See further Abu ‘Ubayd, Annual, 200; DhahabI, Ta’rikh, I, 331. The letter of 
protection was preserved by the people of Ayla, as was the Prophet’s coat, which he gave 
them as a gift. The first of the Abbasid caliphs, al-Saflfah, bought them for the sum of 300 
dinars; Diyarbakri, II, 127; Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 421; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, II, 280; that Ayla was 
the seat of a bishop at the beginning of the seventh century is evident from a letter 
preserved among the papyri ofNessana, from Mouses (Moses), the Bishop of Ailane (the 
district of Ayla) concerning Victor, the son of Sergius, of Nessana. The letter ac¬ 
companied a package sent to the churches of St Sergius in Nessana and its environs; 
Nessana, 146 (51). 

26 Waqidi, 1032; the editor corrected the version, so that it was given the opposite meaning, 
that is, ‘if someone would flee from the Muslims to them’ (to the people of Adhruh), 
which belies common sense. A similarly distorted version is to be found also in Ibn Sa‘d, 
1(2), 37, and this served as the basis for the ‘correction’. See also Mas'udi, Tanbih, 272. 

27 Ibn Sa‘d, 1(2), 28. Certain expressions were already unfamiliar in Ibn Sa'd’s time, and he 
tried to explain them in the continuation to the version of the treaty, not quite accurately. 
See the subject of the treaty in Baladhuri, Futiil), 59f; who states that he was told by an 
Egyptian that he had seen the letter of protection to the people of Maqna in the original, 


29 



THE CONQUEST 


[39] It is distinctly stated of the people of Maqna, Jarba and Adhruh that 
they were Jews. As to the people of Eilat, it appears that Yuhanna b. Ru’ba 
represented the Christians as well as the Jews living there. One should 
especially note the phrase in the letter of security (towards the end) to the 
people of Maqna in which they are promised a leader from amongst 
themselves, although the matter is qualified by the possibility mentioned 
there that their leader could be an envoy of Muhammad. We find in these 
treaties the paradigm of letters of security that the leaders of the Muslims 
were to issue during the great conquests as well. Here can be found certain 
key words for the first time: letter of security (aman or amana); tax (jizya\ 
this word afterwards took on a specific meaning, that of poll-tax); protec¬ 
tion ( dhimma ); giver of protection (jar). One should note that the root ’mti 
in Arabic expresses the idea of security, and that the meaning of the word 
mu’rnin, which is translated above as believer and which is characteristic of 
the Muslims, at the time was linked to the idea of security, something like 
‘the participants of the security pact [under the protection] of God and his 
Messenger’. Only at a later stage did it acquire the meaning of the Hebrew 
word ma’amimm (believers). The new policy towards the Jews and the 
Christians was also evident in the Koran. In chapter ix (siirat al-thawba, the 
repentance, verse 29): ‘Fight ye those who were given the Book, who do 
not trust God nor the Last Day, and do not forbid what God and his 
Messenger have forbidden, since their religion is not the religion of truth; 
[fight them] until they are lying down and pay the tax according to their 
ability’ [or their profits]. 28 

[40] From such precedents, the basic legal outlook of Islam towards 
non-Muslims developed, becoming an integral part of Muslim martial 
law. They were obliged to (1) accept Islam (although theoretically Islam 


written on red parchment, with the script already faded; it was he who copied the version 
and dictated it to Baladhuri, who has the version: Banu Habiba, while that in Ibn Sa‘d was: 
Banu Janba. See the matter of the treaties (letters of protection) also in: HalabI, III, 160; 
Dahlan, II, 374f; Ibn Kathir, Biddya, V, 16f. See also Hirschberg. Israel Ba-'ardv, 152ff, on 
the subject of the treaties, and also the parallel notes on p. 304. As to the name of Jewish 
inhabitants of Maqna, the versions have been interchanged: Janba, Habiba, Hanina, all 
clearly one name which was distorted because of the similarity of the letters in Arabic 
writing; this has already been noted in: Sperber, Die Schreiben Muhammads an die 
Stamme Arabiens, Mitteilungen des Seminars jiir orientalische Sprachen zu Berlin , 19(2): 1, 
1916. The version Hanina is also found in a fake letter of protection preserved in the Cairo 
Geniza, whose author most certainly copied the names from an Arabic source. On this 
subject, see the article by Goitein, KS, 9:507, 1931-33. 

28 Ibn Sa‘d, 1(2), 38: The people of Maqna were Jews who lived on the coast, and the people 
of Jarba and Adhruh were Jews as well. On the passage from the Koran, see: Kister, 
Arabica, 9:272,1964. It is said of this passage that ‘it was brought down’, meaning that God 
revealed it to the Prophet, before the Tabuk campaign, See ibid., 278. However there is 
also a tradition that ascribes it to a period after Tabuk. See Ibn Qayyim al-Jawziyya, 
al-Manar, 102f. 


30 



THE EXPEDITION OF USAMA B. ZAYD [SEC. 41] 

does not recognise forced Islamisation), or (2) accept the status of pro¬ 
tected people (defined for the first time in letters such as those quoted 
above), or (3) be killed (with the exception of women, children and 
slaves). Arabs, that is tribesmen, were in principle left with the choice 
between the first and third possibilities (though in practice there were 
exceptions). 29 


The expedition of Usama b. Zayd 

[41] The two raids across the Palestinian border which followed the 
defeat in Mu’ta, the attacks on Dhat al-Salasil and on Tabuk, did not seem 
to the Prophet sufficient to erase the shame and loss of prestige in the eyes 
of the northern tribes. The tribes of the Palestinian border region had still 
not learned their lesson. Some two and a half years after the attack on 
Tabuk, in May 632, Muhammad invited Usama b. Zayd b. Haritha to the 
mosque and ordered him to act as commander of the army which was to 
invade Palestine again, and in the words of Ibn Ishaq ‘to spur on his horses 
to the Takhum of al-Balqa’ which is in Palestine’, that is, the border area of 
Moab. Zayd b. Haritha, the father of Usama, a man who was very close to 
the Prophet (his freed slave) had commanded the army in the campaign of 
Mu’ta, as we have already seen, and was slain in battle. In addition to the 
Balqa’, he was also ordered to descend upon the Darum. Some weeks 
later, the Prophet began to suffer from the disease which was to end his 
life. Already ill, he again announced with stubborn determination from 
his seat (the rninbar) in the mosque that Usama should head the expedition¬ 
ary force, and rebuked those who thought that he did not merit this 
honour as being too young for the appointment, while the best command¬ 
ers of the Muslim army, from Mecca and from Medina, were available. 
And thus Usama did set up the expeditionary forces camp injurf, about 
four miles from Medina. The Prophet’s orders to Usama were unequivo¬ 
cal: he was to go out to the very place where his father had fought and 
fallen together with the other Muslim commanders: ‘Attack the people of 
Ubna early in the morning and destroy them by fire!’ He stipulated that 
children and women were not to be killed (they were to be taken captive) 
and handed him the battle flag. This raid also attracted the foremost 
Muslims, among them ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab and Abu ‘Ubayda b. al- 
Jarrah. Usama managed to visit the Prophet before going into battle. He 
was exceedingly weak and even unable to speak, but he was still able to lift 
his hand to the heavens, afterwards pointing to Usama, as a sign that he 
was praying for him. 

The following day, as the army was preparing to leave, the Prophet 

29 See Schacht, Introduction , 130. 


31 



THE CONQUEST 


died. It was a Monday, towards evening, on 8 June 632. After Mu¬ 
hammad’s death became known, rumours were heard of the first tribal 
secession from Islam. The Muslims began to hesitate as to the necessity of 
setting out for Palestine. Abu Bakr, however, insistently repeated the 
Prophet’s last instructions: carry out the campaign of Usama’s army! He 
also ordered ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab not to join the campaign as planned 
because he needed him in Medina, and Usama agreed. And so Usama 
went out at the head of an army of3,000 men, of whom some 1,000 were 
cavalry troops. Abu Bakr, the caliph who had just taken up his position, 
accompanied them part of the way. At a distance of two days journey from 
Ubna, Usama learned from a spy he had sent there that the inhabitants 
were relaxed and had no suspicion whatsoever of the approach of the 
Muslim army. Usama therefore hurried to reach Ubna and launched a 
surprise attack, with the Muslims shouting their war cry: Ya mansur amit 
(Oh ye victor, kill!). They slaughtered the local population mercilessly, 
destroying, burning, and taking as many captives as they could. At the 
same time, Usama rode astride his father’s horse and succeeded in slaying 
his father’s killer. 

Ibn Hisham and Waqidfs versions of what occurred at Ubna differ. 
Tabari relates that Usama was ordered that the attack should take place in 
the region of Trans-Jordan (al-Urdunn), at Abil al-Zayt (Abil of the 
Olives). One may assume that the attack took place somewhere in the 
neighbourhood of Moab and it is certainly unlikely that Ubna (probably a 
distortion), can be identified with Yavne, as some have asserted. Noristhe 
actual site of Abil al-Zayt known. 30 


The great invasion 

[42] Abu Bakr’s absolute determination to fulfil the Prophet’s orders 
and carry out the planned attack in the Moab area no matter what the 
outcome, indicates that he perceived, clearly and correctly, that Islam 
would stay alive only if the momentum of war continued. There were 
already troublesome signs of disintegration which were becoming in¬ 
creasingly blatant. Even in the circles of the most faithful — the people of 
Medina and Muhammad’s allies and his first disciples - there was growing 
bitterness and rancour, particularly as none of them had been chosen to be 


30 Ibn Hisham, 970, 999, lp06; Waqidi, 1117-1127; Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 1794f, 1797, 1810, 
1845-1851. MuqaddasI, Aqatim, 174: Darum means the region around Baytjubrin. Seethe 
discussion on the site of the attack: De Goeje, Memoire, 17ff; Ya'qubi, Buldan, 329, and 
Mas'udi, Tanbth, 273, who identify Ubna with Yavneh, and the latter also adds that 
Usama attacked Ashdod (Azdud) apart from Yavneh (Yabna). See the detailed survey in 
Caetani, II, 490ff; 587-591. 


32 



THE GREAT INVASION [SECS. 42-48] 

the Prophet’s replacement (khalifa), but rather a man from the Muhajirun 
people of Mecca, of the Quraysh tribe. It was therefore helpful for Abu 
Bakr to keep the unsatisfied elements out of town for a certain time by 
keeping them absorbed in the war effort led by Usama. 31 

[43] The process of secession, the ridda, consisted mainly of the dissol¬ 
ution of the Muslim alliance and the forfeiting of obligations it had 
imposed on the tribes. Also, in various corners of the peninsula, local 
prophets were appearing on the scene and in this way, religion and politics 
were interwoven. In practical terms, the secession was expressed by the 
refusal to pay the sadaqa, the tax levied on the tribes as a contribution to the 
war fund, and non-compliance to the dictates of the envoys from Medina. 
After the army returned from its campaign in Palestine, a large force was 
organised under the command of Khalid ibn al-Walld, and he put down 
the centres of insurgence one after the other and achieved his principal 
victory in routing Maslama (Musaylima, as the Muslims called him, a 
pejorative diminutive), a prophet who had emerged in the centre of the 
peninsula. There are various opinions with regard to the final suppression 
of the secession, but it seems that this happened in the main before the 
spring of 633; some centres of rebellion continued to exist for about 
another year. 32 

[44] Once he had restored the tribes to compliance and renewed the rule 
of Islam on the peninsula, Abu Bakr decided that the time had come to 
invade Palestinian territory. This occurred when he returned from his 
pilgrimage in the year 12, that is, February-March 634. Two large forces 
were sent to Palestine. The first was under ‘Amr b. al-As, who was 
ordered to pass through Eilat by the mu'raqa (by way of the mountains; 
which appears to be the correct interpretation of this word) to the coastal 
region. The second force was under a triad of commanders: Khalid b. Sa‘Id 
b. al-‘As, Abu ‘Ubayda b. al-Jarrah, and Shurahbll b. Hasana. Khalid b. 
Sa‘id belonged to the clan of Umayya, from which the caliphs of Da¬ 
mascus were descended. He was one of the first to join Islam. Abu 
‘Ubayda was also a veteran of Islam, from the clan of Balharith, of 
Quraysh, and participated in the first hijra (to Ethiopia). He was one of 
Abu Bakr’s most loyal adherents, as he was of‘Umar, while Shurahbll b. 
Hasana belonged to one of the ‘southern’ tribes (as is also indicated by his 
name, which was typical of the south), and it is not clear to which of them 
he belonged - perhaps Kinda, Tamlm or Lakhm. Hasana was the name of 

31 See De Goeje, Memoire, 20; a very detailed survey of the outset of the invasion, including 

Khalid b. al-Walid’s expedition from the Euphrates to the Ha wran. See Caetani, II, 

1119-1236. 

32 See the article Abu Bakr, in EP (by W. M. Watt); the story of the ridda can also be found in 

any history of early Islam. 


33 



THE CONQUEST 


his mother, while ‘Abdallah was his father’s name. He too was one of the 
first followers of Islam and took part in the hijra to Ethiopia. 

The second force was under orders to charge through the Tabuk region 
into Moab (al-Balqa’). Each of the three commanders stood at thehead ofa 
force of 3,000 fighters (some say 5,000). Khalid Ibn Sa‘Id was the first to 
wield success in battle, when advancing according to Abu Bakr’s orders 
through Tayma. He had to recruit additional fighters eti route, on con¬ 
dition that they did not take part in the secession. Indeed, many groups of 
warriors joined him. The Byzantines were informed of the approach of 
this army and organised an opposing force amongst the Bahra, Kalb, 
Salih, Tanukh, Lakhm, Judham, and Ghassan tribes. Khalid wrote and 
informed Abu Bakr of this but the latter answered with a letter of encour¬ 
agement and demanded that he continue to advance. And in fact as he 
advanced, the tribes in the Byzantines’ service dispersed, while his own 
strength was being reinforced by these very tribes en route, many of whom 
joined Islam. In the neighbourhood of Abil (evidently Abil al-Zayt), he 
was attacked by a Byzantine commander ( bitriq ), named Bahan. In one 
version Khalid overcame and slew him (but this is not correct, as we shall 
meet up with Bahan [or Mahan] later on), and scattered his army to the 
winds. Whereas in another version, Bahan delayed Khalid b. Sa'Id’s 
advance considerably and even dealt him a serious setback at a place called 
Marj Suffar (the valley of birds), east of the Sea of Galilee. Khalid’s son 
Sa‘Td was killed in this battle. Reinforcements sent by Abu Bakr, mostly 
tribesmen from Yemen and the centre of the peninsula, under the charge 
of ‘Ikrima b. Abl Jahl and al-WalTd b. ‘Uqba, succeeded, with great 
difficulty, in preventing the complete collapse of the Muslim offensive. 
Another factor which helped to improve the situation at that moment was 
the advance of the forces under Shurahbil b. Hasana. 33 


33 Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 2108f; Baladhuri, Futuh, 107f; see Gibb’s article on Abu ‘Ubayda b. 
al-Djarrah in EP; on Khalid b. Said see Ibn al-Athlr, Usd, II, 90ff; on Shurahbil b. Hasana, 
see ibid., II, 391 f; Baladhuri, Ansab, I, 214; Ibn Qutayba, Ma'ariJ, 325. Baladhuri, Futuh, 
118ff, discusses the battle at Mag Suffar as if it were a later occurrence, and according to 
him, it was Khalid b. Sa‘id himself who was killed on the morning after his betrothal, and 
not his son; and it seems that Tabari’s version is more reliable. De Goeje, Memoire, 78-81, 
defends Baladhuri’s chronology, and assumes that the battle at Marj §uffar indeed took 
place after the conquest of Bet Shean, Pehal (Pella), and Tiberias, during the advance to 
Damascus. Noldeke, ZDMG, 29(1876), 425f, n. 3, tries to prove that Marj Suffar is 
relatively near Damascus. Cf. also Dussaud, Topogr., 318-322. This argument, however, 
does not contain enough to deny most of the Muslim sources which place this campaign in 
the days of Abu Bakr, and one cannot deny the possibility that a Muslim cavalry unit may 
have advanced, at an earlier date, to the Hawran region. Ibn Kathir, Bidaya, VII, 10, refers 
to a source according to which Mahan, the Byzantine commander, tried to handle the 
Muslims diplomatically: he says that Mahan knew they were driven into their campaign 
by suffering and hunger; he offered each ten dinars and food and clothing, adding the 
promise that in the future he would treat them similarly - all on condition that they return 


34 



THE GREAT INVASION [SECS. 42-48] 


[45] At the same time, Abu Bakr decided to accept ‘Umar ibn 
al-Khattab’s advice, who for some time had been asking him to get 
rid of Khalid b. Sa‘Td in the command. The reason for this, according 
to the sources, was that ‘Umar doubted his loyalty, especially as it had 
taken him two months to swear his allegiance to the new caliph. It 
appears that already at this stage, the Umayyads had set their hearts on 
achieving the central role in the leadership of the Muslim camp, and 
this is precisely what ‘Umar hoped to prevent. Nevertheless, in place of 
Khalid b. Sa‘id Abu Bakr appointed Yazld b. Abi Sufyan, who came from 
another branch of the Umayyads, and who seemed more trustworthy 
(this was Yazid the brother of Mu'awiya, who afterwards became 
caliph). 34 

[46] Abu Bakr was particularly attentive to Yazid b. Abi Sufyan, 
recently appointed by him to lead the major force intended to go into 
action in Palestine. He accompanied him part of the way on foot, while 
Yazid rode on his horse. Sources ascribed to Abu Bakr the issuing of an 
order of the day to the forces going out to conquer the north, but there are 
no identical views as to whom the order was given; whether to Usama b. 
Zayd or to Yazid b. Abi Sufyan. Some ascribe similar instructions to the 
Prophet; these are as follows: 

ten precepts have 1 for you, remember them in my name. Do not betray. Do not 
embezzle or behave craftily. Do not disable. Do not kill a small child or an elderly 
person or a woman. Do not uproot palm trees and do not bum them. Do not fell a 
fruit-bearing tree. Do not slaughter sheep, steer, or camel, unless it be for eating. 
When on your way, you will encounter those who have shut themselves up 


to their homes. The Muslims naturally rejected his offer with contempt. Cf. ibid., VII, 5: 
Heraclius writes to his administrators in Palestine and suggests they come to some 
compromise with the Arabs, by which the latter will receive half the taxes of al-Sham 
(Syria and Palestine), while the mountainous regions (?jibal al-Rum) will remain in the 
hands of the Byzantines. Mahan’s name is written in various forms, such as Ahan, Bahan, 
cf. Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 452; in a Byzantine source from the first half of the fifteenth century: 
Blanes, see Klein-Franke, BZ, 65(1972), 5 (1.5). De Goeje, Memoire, proposes Baanes 
(Bahan). Perhaps this is the name Makhaon, see: Preisigke, Namenbuch, 210. According to 
Sa‘Id Ibn Bitrlq, II, 13, Mahan was the commander appointed by Heraclius over the Arab 
tribes, such as Ghassan, Judham, Kalb, Lakhm, etc.; Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, VII, 6 states that 
Mahan was an Armenian. See the discussion (comparatively recent) in Stratos, 64, who 
claims that his name was Vahan or Vaanes, and that he was a Persian, son of Shahrbaraz, 
the Persian commander who led a rebellion in 630 and wanted to become king of the 
Persians; Vahan escaped and fled to Heraclius after his father was killed. See also a further 
note, ibid., 209. Shaban, Islamic History, 25, tries to emphasise the fact that at the head of 
the great invasion Abu Bakr appointed mainly people of Quraysh (‘Amr b. al-‘As, Khalid 
b. Sa'Id, Yazid b. Abi Sufyan); these were people who knew southern Palestine well, and 
also north of this region, due to the widespread commercial transactions they had 
conducted previously. 

34 On the subject of the ousting of Khalid b. SaTd, see Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 2079f; Baladhurl, 
Futuh, 108. 


35 



THE CONQUEST 


in monk’s cells, do them no harm and permit them to devote themselves to their 
chosen paths. You will encounter people bearing vessels, offering you all 
kinds of foods. Invoke God over every dish. When you meet people who have 
shaven their heads in the middle and left a sort of halo around, strike them with 
spears. 

A remnant of these instructions turned up in the Muslim traditions, and 
was included in the hadith collections in the form of a taboo (in the 
Prophet’s name) on qaz' - this being the name given this type of ton- 
sure. 35 

[47] Considerable contradictions in the sources appear regarding the 
time when the conquests began. But it appears that in principle, we have to 
accept the description which places the drive northwards immediately 
after the suppression of the attempted secession. While Abu Bakr and his 
aides and the entire Muslim camp were still basking in the aura of victory 
and prestige which had spread far and wide as a result of putting down the 
rebels, the caliph wanted to take immediate advantage of the situation by 
invading the region which would confront them with the least opposition, 
and that was the area of which the Arab tribes were in charge. Indeed we 
have seen how the tribes of Trans-Jordan receded with the approach of the 


35 Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 1850; the Prophet’s words to Usama b. Zayd, according to WaqidI, 
when charging him with the mission of revenging the death of his father, are somewhat 
similar in content but not precisely the same. See WaqidI, 1117; cf. the shortened version 
of Ya‘qubl, Ta’nkh, II, 82; and see in the anonymous Syriac chronicle, 240, a version 
translated from the Arabic original, in which the killing of the ‘people of the haircut’ is 
omitted. See De Goeje, Memoire, 23, the discussion on the significance of the last two 
passages. There is no doubt that the intention was to order the killing of people with these 
particular haircuts, who were, according to De Goeje, ibid., Christian priests, differ¬ 
entiating them from the monks. But it is possible that the reference here is to the 
Manichaean priests, who were especially abhorred by the Muslim leadership. Hinting at 
the circle (hair? or band?) around the head, see in the picture of Mani, with the Manichaean 
seal, in Adam, Texte, 105, and others which are similar, ibid., in continuation, 108. On the 
other hand, the type of haircut described here was indeed common among the Christian 
priests; although from the decisions of the fourth Council in Toledo (which met at 
precisely the same time as the events described here, in 633), one can understand that there 
was also a ‘haircut of the heretics’: ‘Omnes, clerici vel lectores sicut levitae et sacerdotes, 
detonso superius toto capite, inferius solam circuli coronam relinquant’, that is, all the 
priesthood, readers, the Levites and the Priests, should shave the upper part of their pates, 
leaving a round circle of hair, in order to differentiate themselves from the: ‘ritus haeret- 
icorum: qui... in solo capitis apice modicum circulum tondent' (‘a custom of the heretics 
who ... shave the tops of their heads and nothing else’); see Mansi, X, 630; cf. the detailed 
discussion in Leclerq, Tonsure, DACL, XV (2), 2430-2443. Mahbub (Agapius), 179 
(439), mentions the decree issued by the Emperor Mauricius in the eleventh year of his 
reign, 593, that the Jews of Antioch, who were to be evicted from the city, should shave 
their heads in the middle, in order to have some mark of identification. The matter is 
therefore complex, and there is no way of identifying these tonsured individuals to whom 
the caliph is referring. Qaz‘, see, for instance, in Bukhari, Sahib, k. al-libas, bab al-qaz‘; cf. 
Goldziher, MGWJ, 29(1880), 356. 


36 



THE GREAT INVASION [SECS. 42-48] 

advancing Muslim army and how many of them joined the ranks of the 
Muslims. 36 

[48] This is completely in accord with what Theophanes and Nicepho- 
rus, the patriarch of Constantinople, tell us from the Byzantine angle. 
According to these writers, the Byzantine governor delayed the payment 
of thirty gold livres which he owed the Arabs who were responsible for 
the security of the desert borderlands. When they came to ask for their 
due, the eunuch in charge of finances replied, ‘My master has dificulty 
enough in paying his own soldiers; how then can he pay such dogs?’ This 
led to the Arabs’ abandonment of the Byzantines and joining of the 
Muslims descending on Gaza. Similar information is conveyed by Sa‘Id 
Ibn Bitriq, who mentions that Mahan, Heraclius’ governor of the Arab 
tribes, wrote to Mansur, the governor of Damascus, that he should pay 
the tribes’ envoys whatever was owing to them. When these envoys 
arrived in Damascus, Mansur told them: ‘The emperor does not want such 
a large army, for the Arabs are only good for forays, and if they will have 
to contend with an army that will force them to do battle, their entire 
armies will be slain. And this is an army which requires large sums of 
money and Damascus does not have enough to give them.’ There were 
those who claimed that Mansur said this intentionally, so that the loyal 
tribes would disperse and Damascus would fall to the Muslims. Behind 
this incident, one can also discern the weakness of Byzantium. Although 
the Byzantines had just then defeated the Persians, their treasuries had 
been emptied as a result of the ceaseless wars. One can also discern the 
shifting trend in the Arabs’ state of mind, concurrent with Islam’s early 
victories in the border area of Palestine. However, when the Muslims 
actually first encountered the Byzantine army on the battlefield, some¬ 
where in central Trans-Jordan, and headed by Bahan, they suffered an 
overwhelming defeat which the Muslim sources tend to make light of or 
do not always mention. This was the reversal at Marj Suffar, and it appears 
to have occurred in the summer of 634. 37 


36 See De Goeje, Memoire, 25-29, and his notes on the conflicting texts. He himself doubted 
the veracity of the description in Tabari (according to Sayf; this is most of the description 
given above): he is inclined to accept the traditions in Baladhuri, which shift the battle of 
Marj Suffar to Muharram, in the year AH 14 (March AD 635), and claim that Khalid (and 
not his son), was killed in that battle. But it seems that precisely the somewhat unusual 
version of Sayf is the correct one, while the others tried to lend greater stature to 
personalities who later became more accepted in Islam, particularly Abu ‘Ubayda b. 
al-Jarrah. 

37 Theophanes, 335. Nicephorus, 26f. Cf. De Goeje, Memoire, 29, and see SaTd Ibn Bitriq, II, 
114; cf. also Caetani, II, 11136 


37 



THE CONQUEST 

The expedition of ‘Amr ibn al-‘ As 

[49] The right wing of the Muslim offensive which pushed eastward in 
Trans-Jordan was forced to come to a standstill, and perhaps even to 
withdraw southward to the border region, having evidently been re¬ 
pulsed. At the same time, the left wing advanced under ‘Amr ibn al-‘As, 
via the ‘Arava into the coastal region. According to the tradition in 
Baladhuri, ‘the first battle between the Muslims and their enemies was 
fought at a village in the neighbourhood of Gaza called Dathin, against the 
governor ( bitriq ) of Gaza. A battle raged until God gave the victory to His 
followers, routing His enemies and disbanding their troops’. But prior to 
this, it seems that there was an encounter in the ‘Arava region, when six 
Byzantine commanders with 3,000 men opposed the Muslims. On that 
occasion the Muslims overcame the Byzantines. One of the latter’s officers 
was killed, and the Muslims pursued them until Dubya, or Dabya, as 
Baladhuri puts it. Tabari says in his parallel version that the pursuit lasted 
until Dathina, and he is evidently correct. 38 

[50-51] This battle is described in an anonymous Syriac chronicle as 
follows: 

In the year 945, on Friday the 4th of Shevat (the fourth of February 634 was actually 
a Friday), at the ninth hour, there was a battle between the Byzantines and the 
Arabs of Muhammad in Palestine, 12 miles from the town of Gaza. The Byzan¬ 
tines fled and abandoned the commander (the patricius, in Arabic sources: bitriq) in 
thejordan, and the Arabs slew him. Some 4000 poor villagers from Palestine were 
killed, Christians, Jews and Samaritans and the Arabs destroyed the place 
completely. 

The fact that the Samaritans fought alongside the Byzantines against the 
Muslims is mentioned in other Syriac chronicles as well. According to 
these, the forces opposing the Muslim army consisted of 5,000 fighters, 
recruited by the patricius Sergius from among the Byzantines and the 
Samaritans (Shamra’e). The Muslims were victorious and first of all killed 


38 See Baladhuri, Futiih, 109. Dabya is certainly a distortion of the name Dathina. The name 
Dathin (or Dathina) is parallel etymologically to the Hebrew Doshen, and this may have 
been the name of the place. For we find doshndh shel Yertho (see Sifre on Num., par. 81 [ed. 
Horowitz, 77] and its parallels). It is not unlikely that a place called Doshna near Jericho is 
intended, despite the fact that the Arab sources say it is in the vicinity of Gaza; hence one 
can assume that ‘Amr advanced through the ‘Arava until the region of the Dead Sea and 
from there veered westward. This assumption is supported by the Syriac source which is 
quoted below, according to which the Muslims captured the Byzantine commander ‘in 
thejordan’. The meaning of the word ‘ardba (in the Arab sources) was not clear to Yaqut, 
the Muslim geographer of the Middle Ages, and some modern scholars are also puzzled by 
it, but it is merely the ‘Arava whose meaning we have become accustomed to. See De 
Goeje, Memoire, 30f. Cf. Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 2108; Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, VII, 4. See in Sa‘id 
ibn Bitriq, II, 10, instead of Dathin: ‘Tadun, a village in the Gaza area, near Hijaz’. In 
Theophanes, 332: Dathesmos. 


38 



THE EXPEDITION OF ‘AMR IBN AL-‘AS [SECS. 49-52] 

all the Samaritans. The patricius Sergius managed to escape, but the Arabs 
caught him and had him executed. We find contrary information about the 
Samaritans in Baladhurf, according to whom the Samaritans served as 
spies and informers to the Muslims. 39 The Byzantine commander was also 
called Sergius, according to Theophanes; he went out of Caesarea to face 
the Arabs at the head of a small force, some 300 strong, but the Arabs 
defeated him and he was killed. The Arabs already dominated Hera at the 
time (it is not clear where this is) as well as the entire Gaza district (khora 
Gazes). 40 

[52] The expedition of ‘Amr ibn al-‘As is reflected also in a Christian 
source I have already mentioned above, which it seems is actually a 
product of the time, that is, the Didaskalia of Jacob. Justus of Acre 
(Ptolemais), son of Samuel, argues with Jacob; while setting out his 
arguments, he recalls that he received a letter from his brother Abraham 
from Caesarea, telling of a false messiah who has appeared among the 
Arabs (en mesa Sarakenon) and that they have killed Sergius, the candidatus. 
According to Justus, the Prophet who appeared within the ranks of the 
Arabs is an omen of the true Messiah who has yet to come; but one of the 
sages of Sykamina (which is Haifa), denied this, for it is not the manner of 
prophets to come mounted and with the sword.' 11 


39 BM Or 14, 643, fol. 50u, printed in Land, An.Syr. I, 17, and see his Latin translation, ibid ., 
116, and its copy in De Goeje, Memoire, 30. It is possible that in writing ‘Yarden’ the 
chronicler who apparently already wrote under Islam, meant northern Palestine, i.e., jund 
Urdunn. De Goeje’s assumption that there was a distortion here of the Syriac text has no 
basis; nor has that which Caetani, II, 1144, n. 2, writes in his wake. The anonymous Syriac 
chronicle, 241 f, contains a long description of the battle with Sergius, according to which 
most of the fighters in the Byzantine forces were Samaritans, in all, 5000 men. A similar 
version can be found in Michael the Syrian (Chabot), II, 413 (French translation; 41 If, in 
the original). See also Bar Hebraeus (Bedjan), 99f; see Budge’s English translation, 93. 
And see further Baladhuri, Futiih, 158, and cf. Lammens, Yaztd, 385. 

40 Theophanes, 336. Caetani’s assumption, in II, 1143, that Hera is perhaps HIra, and that the 
subject being dealt with is the war with the Persians and Khalid ibn al-Walld, is not 
convincing. See the description of the raid on Gaza (within the context of the first raids): 
Pernice, Eraclio, 2721F; this description is arbitrary to a large extent, and is evidently not 
based on a study of the sources themselves. 

41 See the words of Justus, in the Bonwetsch edition, 86; cf. Krauss, Zion (ha-me’assef), 
2(1927/8), 30; Crone and Cook, 3ff; Constantelos, Byzantion, 42(1972), 351f; Maas, BZ, 
20(1911), 576; the ‘candidate’, a Roman administrative position, was in this period the 
commander of a Byzantine elite military unit; Liudprand mentions the candidati in the same 
breath as the spatharii; see Leclercq, Candidator, DACL, 11(2), 1842; see various interpret¬ 
ations of this term: Du Cange, Gloss., s.v. See also the list of spatharokandidatoi: Benesevic, 
BNGJ , 5(1926/7), 133; see also Bury, Imperial Administration, 22; The candidate wore a 
special gold chain; see ibid., 113. It is obvious that they were a select body, apparently 
commanders in the cavalry units. See what is said in Procopius, Wars, VII, xxxviii, 5 (Loeb 
V, 20-22) on Asbadus, who succeeded in becoming one ofjustinian’s guardsmen because 
he was considered a candidate and was the commander of the cavalry units which served as 
a garrison. The word ‘candidatus’ is derived from the white colour of their dress. 


39 



THE CONQUEST 


The expedition of Khalid ibn al-Walid 

[53] Until now, we have seen how the Muslim tribes pushed forward 
towards southern Palestine, largely owing to the weak defense put up by 
the opposition led by those Arab tribes which were faithful to Byzantium, 
as well as by a small Byzantine garrison which could not withstand the 
onslaught of the Muslim cavalry. But it seems that both the army in the 
field as well as the caliph knew well that this advance was insufficient to 
conquer all of al-Sham, or Syria and Palestine. They estimated accurately 
that in order to fortify and consolidate their initial achievements, they had 
to gather additional forces and try to finally overthrow the Byzantines’ 
power of resistance. With this necessity in mind, and particularly in view 
of the increasing rumours that were reaching them about the concen¬ 
tration of Byzantine forces and their preparations to go into action, the 
Muslim leadership headed by the caliph Abu Bakr decided to enter on a 
rather unusual course, a very daring and dangerous one. Abu Bakr 
ordered Khalid ibn al-WalTd, the commander of the major Muslim forces 
who at that time were fighting the Persians in Iraq, to go to the assistance 
of the tribes struggling in Palestine. This move indicated that priority was 
being given to the Byzantine front, and this would clearly endanger the 
Persian campaign. There was also the risk to the forces that were to move 
from Iraq to Syria through the desert, without any pause to prepare 
themselves adequately for such a campaign, something which had never 
been attempted before. 

According to the description of Ibn Ishaq, Abu Bakr wrote to Khalid, 
who was stationed in HIra near the Euphrates, ordering him to depart for 
al-Sham with the pick of his men and leave the weaker elements behind in 
Iraq. Khalid thought this a plot connived at by ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab (who 
harboured resentment towards Khalid, as we shall see below), in order 
that he should not be recognised as the conqueror of Iraq. Despite what he 
had been told of the difficulties awaiting him en route, particularly the lack 
of water, Khalid did not give way, and using the best methods of prepar¬ 
ing the camels for long treks without water, according to the extensive 
experience of the Bedouin in these matters, he managed to bring his men 
through the desert successfully as far as Busra in the Hawran, via Tadmur, 
in a pattern forming an arc whose outer curve faced northward. 

The traditions contradict one another as to the number of fighters, 
fluctuating from 500 to 3,000; one of the versions even mentions 9,000. 
Busra was taken after a siege and submitted voluntarily (by sulh), and a tax 
( jizya ) was levied on its inhabitants. ‘And this was the first city taken in 
al-Sham in the days of Abu Bakr.’ In the region of Damascus, Khalid first 
met up with the great tribe, Banu Ghassan, who were Christians. He 
found them near Marj Rahit, celebrating Easter, which that year fell on 


40 



THE EXPEDITION OF KHALID IBN AL-WAUD; IJNADAYN [SECS. 53-55] 

24 April. It ensues that Khalid’s forces penetrated into Palestine through 
the Galilee at the beginning of May 634. 42 


Ijnadayn 

[54—55] According to Baladhuri, the Byzantine army at this stage 
totalled 100,000 men. Arab sources mention the names and ranks of some 
of the Byzantine commanders. Sergius, governor of Caesarea; Theodore 
(or Theodorikos), the brother of the emperor (and the sources stress that 
he was a full brother on both the mother’s and the father’s side) who was 
the chief commander; Georgios son of Theodore; Artabun, which is 
evidently a distortion of tribunus\ a man who held the title of qinqildr, or 
qubqular (evidently cubicularius)', jtqar, or vicarius', and dmnjdr or drungarius. 
Bahan, who has already been mentioned at the start of the war, is men¬ 
tioned again. As to the Muslims, their numbers were far less than those of 
the Byzantines. The right wing was situated eastwards of Trans-Jordan, 
with the three commanders I have already mentioned above, Abu 
‘Ubayda, Shurahbll and Yazid, and they seem to have moved westward. 
‘Amr ibn al-‘As was then somewhere in the south, between the neigh¬ 
bourhood of the Dead Sea and somewhere south of Gaza, while Khalid, it 
seems, was based in the Galilee. One can estimate that the entire Muslim 


42 See Caetani, II, 1193-1236, especially the table, ibid., 1222f; see the description of the 
desert crossing in Tabari, Ta’rtkh, I, 2122ff; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, II, 408; the campaign 
through the Syrian desert was led by a man of the Banu Tayy’, Raff b. ‘Umayra, who 
hesitated at first, and claimed that even a single horseman would not dare to take this route 
across the desert let alone an entire army with the logistics involved. The fighters were 
ordered to provide themselves with enough water for five days; twenty choice she-camels 
were deprived of water and then permitted to drink as much as they could, and every day, 
ett route , four of them were slaughtered and the horses were then allowed to drink from the 
contents of their bellies. On the fifth day, the people and the horses were left without 
water, and then, in an almost miraculous way, Raff managed to discover a spring which 
he remembered from childhood, under a zyzyphus tree, although this very tree had 
already been felled by someone. See in De Goeje, Memoire, 37-50, a detailed discussion on 
the various contradictory versions concerning the details of Khalid’s route and the number 
of fighters he had with him. On the conquest of Busra, see Tabari, Ta’nkh, I, 2125; his 
version according to which Khalid had already met the three commanders of the army 
fighting in Palestine, Abu ‘Ubayda, Shurahbll and Yazid, in Busra and they all partici¬ 
pated in the siege on the town, is not really credible. At the time, these three were far ofifin 
the south of Palestine. Discussion of the dates: De Goeje, ibid., 39f. Tabari, Ta’nkh , I, 
2109, has another version in which Khalid left HIra on Rabf II, but Rabf II, in the 13th 
year started on 4 June, and this contradicts the fact that the raid on the Banu Ghassan 
occurred during Easter. Evidently there is some error here, and the correct version would 
be that Khalid arrived from HIra at the beginning ofjune 634. See also Ya'qubI, Ta ’rikh, II, 
151, who within the framework of Khalid’s exploits (also found in other sources), tells of 
taking captive twenty young Jews from the synagogue, in an undefined place on the 
Euphrates. See further: Pernice, Eraclio, 275f. 


41 



THE CONQUEST 


army numbered no more than 40,000 fighters. The decisive battle took 
place on the 28th ofjumada I in the year AH 13, which is the 30th ofjuly, 
AD 634, or two months after Khalid reached Palestine, in a place called 
Ijnadayn, which most of the Muslim sources say is situated between 
Ramla and Bayt Jibrin. The site has still to be identified. One explanation 
is that the name Ijnadayn, which seems to mean ‘two armies’, is the 
equivalent of legionum, that is Lajjun, or Megiddo. In favour of this 
supposition is the fact that Megiddo is a critical point strategically and it is 
reasonable to assume that the united Muslim forces, whose columns 
advanced from the north (Khalid) and the south (‘Amr, Abu ‘Ubayda and 
the rest) actually met up with the Byzantines at this crucial juncture, which 
the latter had to defend with all their might. However, wc do not have 
enough data to take a definite stand on the matter. At any rate, the 
Muslims scored a smashing success which now enabled the tribes to 
dominate all of Palestine. Heraclius at the time, was stationed in Hims, 
according to Arab sources, and when he learned of the defeat he hurried 
towards Antioch, as if he wished to avoid the dangerous site. 43 After the 

43 As to the date, some place it earlier and some later, but the preferable version is 28 Jumada 
I; see De Goeje, Memoire , 51. Also see ibid., 52-60, the discussion on the site ofljnadayn 
and his assumption, which seems unfounded, that the Arab sources confused the battle of 
Ijnadayn with that of the Yarmuk, for Ijnadayn, according to one source, is near Hebron 
and Hebron is near Yarmut (a Biblical location [Jarmuth] mentioned also by Eusebius in 
his Onomastikon; see de Goeje, ibid., 59, n. 2). See Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 2087 who gives the 
name of the emperor’s brother as Tadhariq. The Byzantine army concentrated in Jilliq (or 
Jallaq?), in northern Palestine. Jurja b. Tudhra was sent to oppose Yazld b. Abu Sufyan. 
The duraqus (droungarios?) was sent against Shurahbll b. Hasana; the fiqdr (vicarius?) ibn 
Nastus was sent against Abu ‘Ubayda. See ibid. , 2125: Qubqular (perhaps it was qunqu- 
lar). As for the date, see ibid., 2126. See also Baladhuri, Futuh, 113f; Ya'qubI, Ta’rikh, II, 
150f; Khalifa ibn Khayyat, I, 103f; Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 478ff, Ibn Kathlr, Biddya, V, 54f; Ibn 
Hubaysh, 127, points out explicitly that the battle ofljnadayn took place twenty-four days 
before the death of Abu Bakr (22 Jumada II) and this confirms the date mentioned above. 
Dhahabi, Ta’rikh, I, 375: Ijnadayn is situated between Ramla and Jarash. Ibn Kathlr, 
Biddya, VII, 5f, mentions among the Byzantine commanders Jurja b. Budhlha (evidently 
he is Tudhra, which is Theodore, in T abari), who was in charge of the central sector of the 
army, according to him. The name of the cubicular, who was one of Heraclius’ eunuchs, 
was Nasturas. See further on the date, Ibn al-Athlr, Usd , I, 37 (s.v. Aban v. Sa‘id); Ibn 
‘Abd al-Barr, Isti’db, I, 64 (as mentioned); on the battle, see also: Mawsill, Wasa’il, 217; 
Yaqut, Buldan, I, 136. On the Byzantine offices mentioned in Muslim sources in the 
account of this battle: Droungarios, see Bury, Imperial Administration, 41 f; Benesevic, 
BNGJ, 5(1926/7), 125, who explains that he was a commander of a moira, which is a unit of 
some 1000 to 3000 men; cf. Sophocles, Greek Lexicon, s.v.; also Ibn Khurdadhbih, 111, 
who says that the taranjar (droungarios) commanded over 1,000 men. See also Guilland, I, 
563-587: ‘Le drongaire et le grand drongaire de la Veille’ (an article of the same name was 
first printed in BZ, 43 [1950], 340-365), according to whom the droungarios was one of 
the commanders of one of the four army corps of the Byzantine army, namely that which 
was called vigle, vigiliae. There were also the droungarios of the navy, see ‘Le drongaire de 
la flotte’: ibid. , 535-562; BZ, 44(1951), 212-240; it is difficult to tell to which droungarios 
the Arab sources are referring (Guilland does not mention them). As to the cubicularios, 
see ibid., 269-282, Titres des eunuques ( REB, 13, 1955, 50-84); the bearers of the rank 


42 



ADDITIONAL CONQUESTS [SECS. 56-58] 


victory at Ijnadayn, the Muslims conquered most of the cities in Palestine 
one after the other; Gaza, Sebastia, Nabulus, Lod, Yavne, Emmaus, Bet 
Guvrin, Jaffa and Rafiah. 44 


Additional conquests 

[56] On the 23rd of August, 634, the caliph Abu Bakr died and ‘Umar 
ibn al-Khattab, his right-hand man and closest aide throughout the period 
of his caliphate, became caliph in his place. Towards the end of the 
summer, as we have seen, the conquest of most of the cities of Palestine 
had come to an end. Evidence of this could be heard in the sermon held by 
the Jerusalem patriarch, Sophronius, on Christmas Day that year. In his 
words, the Arabs (‘the Saracens’) ‘plunder cities, despoil the fields, burn 
the villages, destroy holy monasteries’. Out of fear of the Arabs, the 
Christians celebrating in Jerusalem were not permitted to visit Bethlehem, 
as was their annual custom on this day, and they remained shut securely 
behind the city walls. 45 

[57] Remnants of the Byzantine army concentrated in thejordan Valley 
in the neighbourhood of Bet Shean after their downfall in Ijnadayn. There 
they attempted to stave off the Muslims’ advance northward and east¬ 
ward, towards Tiberias and the northern Trans-Jordan. They dammed off 
the irrigation canals with the intention of creating large quagmires, but 
despite the difficulties and the losses suffered while trying to cross the 
marshes with their horses, the Muslims succeeded in breaking through to 
the east and taking over Fihl (Pella) after a battle, evidently in the middle of 
January 635. Immediately afterwards, Tiberias capitulated to the Muslims 
together with all the towns in the area. The conditions of the surrender of 
these localities (such as Tiberias and Bet Shean) were that half the inhabi¬ 
tants’ houses should go to the Muslims, they would pay a dinar poll-tax 
annually and they would hand over to the Muslims a quantity of wheat or 
oats equivalent to the number of seeds planted on each unit of land. 


were eunuchs considered of high status, even of nobility, who accompanied the emperor 
on his military expeditions; and he mentions (based on Nicephorus of Constantinople) 
Marianus the cubicular appointed by Heraclius to halt the advance of the Arabs into 
Egypt. 

44 Baiadhuri, Futuh, 138. He points out that Sebastia and Nabulus were taken on conditions 
of aman, that is, personal and property security in exchange for the payment of taxes. In 
Bet Guvrin, ‘Amr took over an estate called ‘Ajlun, named after a client whom he had 
there. Emmaus was called by the Byzantines Nikopolis, and the fact that the Arabs called it 
‘Imwas, proves that it was called by its ancient name by the people of Palestine. It appears 
that later on it was the main base of the Muslim army in Palestine, which we can surmise 
from the fact that the name was also used for the greatest plague that broke out among the 
Muslim army, la'un ‘Imwas. See: Vincent et Abel, Emmaus, 356f. 

45 See Sophronius’ sermon: De Goeje, Memoire, 174f, and also Schonborn, 90f. 


43 



THE CONQUEST 


Concurrently, Shurahbil conquered all the towns of Urdunn (which is 
Palaestina secunda in the Arab sources) and their citadels, including Suslta 
(Susiya), Afeq (Afiq), Jarash, Bayt Ra’s, Qedesh (Qadas), and all of the 
Golan, Acre, Tyre, and Sepphoris (Safuriyya). 46 

(58) At about the same time, Hims, in Syria, was captured and Da¬ 
mascus lay under siege. Panic was rife in Damascus when the taking of 
Tiberias and the other cities in northern Palestine, in the Hawran and in the 
Golan, became known. The siege on Damascus began on the 16th of 
Muharram of the year AH 14, the 12th of March AD 635, and continued 
for half a year, until the 10th of September. We shall not go into the many 
details of the victory over Damascus, but it will suffice to point to the fact 
that there are hints of betrayal within the city itself, apart from the pressure 
exerted by the Muslims, and in this connection the name of Mansur b. 
Sarjun (Sergius), the governor of the town, is mentioned, for he seems to 
have secretly hoped for the Muslims’ triumph. Here too, the name of 
Mahan, or Bahan, arises, as the chief Byzantine commander; Nastas 
(Anastasius) is also mentioned, as is Theodore the Sakellarios. There is an 
interesting episode concerning the great church of St John in Damascus; 
according to the terms of settlement, the church was divided in half and 


46 De Goeje, Memoire, 70ff; SuyutI, Ta’rtkh, 131; Ibn Sa‘d, IV(1), 144; the battle of Fihl 
occurred in Dhu’l-Qa'da of the year 13 (December 634 - January 635). According to 
Tabari, Ta'rtkh, I, 2158, the people of Bet Shean were prepared to fight the Muslim army, 
commanded by Shurahbil b. Hasana, but in the meantime, they learned of the setback in 
Fihl. Although a few of them put up some resistance to the Muslims and lost their lives in 
the process, the remainder of the inhabitants of Bet Shean surrendered to the Muslims by a 
peace pact ( sulh ); see the same also in Ibn Hubaysh, 138. For the terms of the surrender see 
Tabari, ibid., 2159; on the opening of the dams in the Bet Shean valley, ibid., 2145: Bet 
Shean from that time was given the cognomen ‘the marshy one’ (dhat al-radgha). It should 
be noted that the traditions on the conquest of Fihl and the events in the Bet Shean area are 
recounted in the name of Ibn Humayd, by Salama and Ibn Ishaq, and that these are 
traditions taken from a very early commentary on the Koran by SaTd ibn Jubayr al-Asadl, 
a man from Kufa who was one of the first commentators, and who was killed by al-IJajjaj 
in 714 (see Sezgin, I, 28ff). According to Khalifa ibn Khayyat, I, 117, all the towns in the 
area were taken in battle, with the exception of Tiberias, which surrendered willingly by 
sulh ; see also ibid., 103f. See also Ya‘qubl, Bulddn, 328; Tiberias yielded to Abu ‘Ubayda of 
its own accord, whereas the remainder of towns in the Urdunn had been captured earlier 
by Khalidb. al-WalIdand‘Amribnal-‘As. See Ya'qubI, Ta’rikh, II, 159f;cf. Ibn Hubaysh, 
138f; Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 486, 525; DhahabI, Ta’rlkh, I, 377; II, 10; see also Ibn al-Tmad, I, 28. 
Baladhuri, Futuh, 116, notes that the condition laid down for the peaceful surrender of 
Tiberias was that houses unoccupied because their owners had fled, would be handed over 
to the Muslims and that a site would be allotted to the Muslims for a mosque; but the 
people of Tiberias afterwards defaulted on the contract with the help of remnants of the 
Byzantine army, and then Abu ‘Ubayda sent ‘Ainr ibn al-‘As to them, along with 4,000 
men and they surrendered for the second time, under the same conditions. Some say that 
this occurred under the command of Shurahbil. See also Yaqut, Bulddn, III, 509. Modem 
scholars speak of the Dekapolis conquest; whereas actually in the list of captured towns 
(the most complete list is contained in Baladhuri), only a few are towns of the Dekapolis. 


44 



THE BATTLE OF THE YARMUK [SECS. 59-62] 

the west side was allotted to the Christians while the east side was given to 
the Muslims. 47 


The battle of the Yarmuk 

[59] The emperor Heraclius, who according to the Arab sources was in 
Antioch at the time (635), began with supreme effort to organise a coun¬ 
ter-attack. According to Ibn Ishaq, Heraclius first of all gathered together 
those Arab tribes who were opposed to Islam - the Lakhm, Judham, 
Balqln, Bali, ‘Amila, Quda‘a and Ghassan - in addition to which he also 
had army units of Armenians. Heading the army stood ‘Heraclius’ eu¬ 
nuch’, the Sakellarios Theodore. Georgios (Jurja) was in command of the 
Armenians, while Jabala b. al-Ayham, of the Banu Ghassan, led the Arab 
tribes still loyal to the Byzantines. This army numbered 100,000 men; 
some claim that it comprised as many as 200,000 men. Some sources 
mention that Bahan was still in charge of the army. Opposing them was 
the Muslim army, with a mere 24,000 fighters. Although it is not men¬ 
tioned specifically, there must have been Aramaic-speaking recruits from 
the local populations and Greek-speaking Byzantine soldiers in this con¬ 
glomerate army of the Byzantines, for it is clear that it was not marked in 
any way by its uniformity or its unity. 48 

47 De Goeje, Memoire, 82-103; Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 493-526; see ibid, on p. 501, the tradition 
according to which ‘a monk’ (here certainly meaning Mansur) handed over the town to 
Khalid ibn al-Walld, while another section of the Muslim army broke into the town 
forcibly. See Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 2151ff, on the siege; according to one of his versions, the 
siege lasted only seventy days; but ibid., 2155, the tradition according to WaqidI mentions 
that the siege went on for six months. Afterwards members of the family of Mansur b. 
Saijun acted as chief administrators for the Umayyad caliphs; his son, Sergius (Sarjun), 
was a major official of‘Abd al-Malik, see Baladhuri, Futiih, 193; cf. Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 
205, 228, 239, 837. The anonymous Syriac chronicle, 248, calls him John the diakonos, son 
of Sargun. See also on Mansur b. Sarjun, SaTd ibn Bitrlq, II, 14f, according to whom 
Mahan became a monk on Mount Sinai out of fear of punishment for the fall of Damascus, 
and who wrote a commentary on the sixth chapter of psalms (al-mazmur, zaburDa ’iid). See 
a short summary of this family’s matters in Stratos, 61, n. 214. See a fragment from MS 
BM Add 14461, edited by Noldeke, ZDMG, 29(1876), 77f, from a Syriac chronicle, 
which has the date on which the Byzantines fled Damascus as 10 August (Av), which is 
earlier by a month from that given in the Muslim sources. See also Theophanes, 337f, who 
mentions Bahan and the Sakellarios as those who stood at the head of the defence of 
Damascus. On the church of Damascus, see De Goeje, ibid., 96f; cf. in addition to the 
sources he refers to: al-Badrl, 53. 

48 SeeTabari, Ta’rikh, 1,2347, and cf. ibid., 2389f, an unclear description of a trial attack by 
the Byzantines in an unknown place which he calls Marj al-Rum (valley of the Byzan¬ 
tines), evidently north of Damascus, under the command of the Byzantine Shanas (or 
Shanash), who fell in battle. See Baladhuri, Futiih, 135ff, where he speaks of a Byzantine 
army of 200,000 men, ‘Byzantines, people of al-Sham (Syria and Palestine), people of 
al-jazlra (northern Mesopotamia) and Armenia’; see in Caetani, III, 553, traditions on 300 
or even 400 thousand Byzantine fighters. See also Khalifa ibn Khayyat, I, 118; Ibn ‘Asakir, 
I, 529, 531; DhahabI, Ta’rikh, II, 10; Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, VII, 7. The Sakellarios is described 


45 



THE CONQUEST 


[60] In view of the tremendous concentration of forces organised by the 
Byzantines in preparation for their great counter-attack, the Muslim 
leaders decided to shorten their front. After consultation with the caliph 
through letters, they executed a complete withdrawal and actually left 
Syria, both in the north (Hims) and in the south (Damascus). According to 
the tradition preserved by Baladhuri, it is told that the Muslims returned 
the taxes which they had levied on the inhabitants of Hims, saying: ‘It is 
impossible for us to be your helpers and defenders, therefore take care of 
yourselves.’ Then the people of Hims are said to have retorted: 

Your protection and sense of justice are preferable to injustice and violence; 
therefore we shall stand together with your leader and protect the town from 
Heraclius’ armies. The Jews of Hims even swore on the Torah that they would not 
permit Heraclius’ governor to enter Hims, and even locked the gates of the city, 
placing a guard at the gates. This was how the Christians and the Jews behaved in 
the cities which had submitted earlier to the Muslims. 

The narrator adds that after the Muslims were triumphant and defeated the 
Byzantines, they were again received by the inhabitants of the towns with 
great joy and song. Adversely, we have the Syriac Chronicle telling of the 
destruction of Hims and its environs by the Muslims. 49 

[61] The Muslims then concentrated their forces in the southern part of 
the Golan and to the east of the Sea of Galilee while the Byzantines 
advanced from the region of Antioch southward. According to Theo- 
phanes, the first confrontation between the armies at the start of the battle 


in the sources as the person in charge of the emperor’s personal affairs, and he frequently 
bears the title praepositus sacri cubiculi, and was principally in charge of the emperor’s 
treasury, th esacellnm, from which the name of the office derives. SeeinGuilland, I, 357, in 
the chapter Le preposite (= Byzantinoslavica, 22(1961], 241-301); cf. Benesevic, BNGJ, 5 
(1926/7), 117, where the patrikios sakellarios is mentioned (ho patrikios kai sakellarios); 
Sophocles, Greek Lexicon, s. v., translates it: bursar; cf. also Bury, Imperial Administration, 
41f, 76-85, Du Cange, Gloss, s.v.: an officer in charge of the treasury (fisci custos). 

49 Baladhuri, Futiih, 337; Abu Yusuf, 81. The marked difference between the strength of the 
Byzantines and that of the Muslims, is mentioned by the Karaite commentator Yefet ben 
‘All (in the middle of the tenth century) in his commentary on Dan. xi:25—26: ‘and he shall 
stir up his power and his courage against the king of the south’, etc.; in his view, the Bible 
speaks of the battle between ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab and the Byzantines who were in 
Palestine, at Marj ‘Imwas near Jerusalem, and although the Muslim army was also large 
(‘with a great army’), the Byzantine army was still greater (‘a very great and mighty 
army’); the Byzantine king’s men betrayed him when they saw the Muslims advancing 
(‘for they shall forecast devices against him’) and a great many of them were killed (‘and 
many shall fall down slain’). Then Palestine was captured from the Byzantines by th esahib 
al-Islam- ‘until this very day’. See his commentary on Daniel, 124. See De Goeje, Memoire, 
108-118, the discussion about the problem of whether the capture of Damascus occurred 
before the battle of the Yarmuk or afterwards. He demonstrates that the Muslims captured 
Damascus twice, as is also described here. The Syriac source: in the MS BM Add 14, 461, 
Noldeke, ZDMG, 29(1876), 77f, see lines 8-9. See further on the evacuation of Syria by 
the Muslims: Ibn Hubaysh, 143f. 


46 



THE BATTLE OF THE YARMUK [SECS. 59-62] 

of the Yarmuk was on Tuesday the 23rd ofjuly 636. While that part of the 
Byzantine forces under the Sakellarios suffered a defeat, the army com¬ 
manded by Baanes (Bahan) rebelled against the emperor and crowned the 
Sakellarios in his place. There was a general withdrawal and the Arabs 
used this opportunity to launch an attack in the midst of a sandstorm 
brought on that day by a wind from the south, and therefore the Byzan¬ 
tines, who came from the north, were unable to see the enemy facing 
them. Most of the Byzantine army was wiped out in the region’s valleys 
and ravines during their flight, together with their commanders. 

The date of the event, according to Muslim sources, is Rajab in the year 
15. Ibn al-Kalbl cites the 5th as the date, but there are also other versions, 
less reliable, which place the battle of the Y armuk much earlier, even in the 
year AH 13 (AD 634), apparently confusing this battle with that of 
Ijnadayn. If we accept Ibn al-Kalbf s date, we find that the battle took place 
on the 13th of August, 636, that is three weeks after the date given by 
Theophanes. A Syriac source tells of a Byzantine defeat in Gabltha in 
which 50,000 soldiers were killed on the 20th of August. As Theophanes 
speaks at one and the same time of the battle in Gabitha and the other in 
Iermoukha (Gabitha is Jabiya in the Golan, which evidently was a concen¬ 
tration point for the Byzantines), Noldeke assumed, quite correctly, that 
the Syriac source was actually referring to the battle of the Yarmuk. We 
see, therefore, that the dates ascribed to the battle of the Yarmuk move 
between the 23rd ofjuly (Theophanes) and the 20th of August (the Syriac 
source). 50 


50 Theophanes, 332, 338; one can surmise that what he is describing was an uprising of the 
Armenians; cf. Ya'qubi, Ta’rtkh, II, 160; Baiadhuri, Futuh, 135: 70,000 Byzantines and 
others who had joined forces with them were killed; Muslim women also participated in 
the battle. Tabari, Ta'rikh, I, 2347ff; Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 528f, 533, 537; on pp. 538-545 he 
includes traditions that describe the course of the battle. Bahan gave a heartening address 
to his men and then ordered his left flank to launch an attack, under the command of the 
droungarios (dirnijar). Opposing them were mainly the tribes of Yaman, which made up 
the right flank of the Muslims, and though the pressure on them was heavy, they 
withstood it. But they eventually had to withdraw towards the centre in view of the 
tremendous waves of Byzantine soldiers attacking them, apart from some 500 fighters 
who stubbornly continued to fight until those who had withdrawn returned and replaced 
them. Finally, the outcome of the battle was decided by the Muslims' left flank, under 
Khalid ibn al-Walld. See more versions in Ibn Katblr, Biddya, VII, 4-16; in his account, the 
battle of the Yarmuk takes place in the days of Abu Bakr; cf. Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 2155; see 
also his story of the unusual tactics of Khalid ibn al-Walld, who divided his cavalry in two, 
one half to the left flank and the other to the right flank, in order to strengthen both of 
them. See the Syriac source, as in the previous note, from line 20; cf. Noldeke, ibid., 79; 
Theophanes, 332. See also SaTd ibn Bitrlq, II, 14: the Byzantines under Mahan were 
stationed in a large wadi called Wadi Ramad in the Golan, known also by the name 
al-Yaqusa (this name, Yaqusa or Waqusa, is also mentioned in other sources) thinking that 
the wadi protected them, while the Arabs were ensconced opposite them. At this point, 
Mansur, the governor of Damascus, betrayed the Byzantines by coming to their position 


47 



THE CONQUEST 


[62] Heraclius, who was awaiting the results of the battle in Antioch, 
sailed to Constantinople as soon as he learned the bitter truth, and accord¬ 
ing to Muslim sources exclaimed: ‘Peace be with you, O Syria! My 
beautiful country [meaning the land of al-Sham] from now on you belong 
to the enemy!’ Damascus, Hims and all the other Syrian cities were now 
again in the hands of the Muslims, who recaptured them immediately after 
the victory of the battle of the Yarmuk and the devastation of Byzantine 
power. 51 


The dismissal of Khalid ibn al-Wahd 

[63] After the battle of the Yarmuk there was widespread internal 
dissension within the Muslim camp which led to the dismissal of Khalid 
ibn al-Walid from the command of the army which had fought in Pal¬ 
estine. The traditions vary and contradict one another with regard to this 
affair: some describe Khalid’s dismissal as having occurred at the begin¬ 
ning of‘Umar’s caliphate. These traditions speak of‘Umar’s resentment 
towards Khalid because of the latter’s behaviour during the ridda battles, 
whereas the more reliable traditions stress the central role which Khalid 
played during the battle of the Yarmuk. It is not likely that ‘Umar would 
oust such an accomplished and experienced warrior from the central 
command before knowing whether the final outcome was entirely in 
favour of the Muslims. Apparently the real reason behind his discharge lay 
in differences over the spoils, and the traditions refer to this very frankly. 
According to one of the traditions quoted in Tabari, for instance, ‘Umar 
learned (for nothing was hidden from him) about a gift of 10,000 dinars 


at the head of a great number of people from Damascus at night, bearing torches, and the 
Byzantines thought that these were Arabs and that they were being attacked from the front 
and from the rear, so they took to their heels in panic, and thus met their end. Futiih 
(ascribed to WaqidI), I, 205f: the traitor to the Byzantines was Abu Ju‘ayd, one of the 
leaders of Hims, who lived in a town called Zira'a. The Byzantine soldiers mistreated his 
wife and murdered his children; for which he took his vengeance on them by provoking a 
stampede within the ranks of the Byzantine army stationed in Wadi Yaqusa. Later on, we 
find Abu Ju'ayd mentioned also in connection with the capture of Jerusalem. See the 
comprehensive discussion and survey of the sources relating to the battle of the Yarmuk in 
Caetani, III, 549-613. See appreciation of Khalid ibn al-Walld’s strategic talents in Canard, 
Settimane-Spoleto, 12(1964), 50ff; the strategic withdrawal in the face of Heraclius' forces, 
the evacuation of southern Syria and Damascus and the counter-movement on the 
Yarmuk are evidence of his excellent organising ability and his skill at manoeuvring on the 
battlefield. Khalid’s qualities as an outstanding commander were already evident during 
his march from Iraq to Syria through the desert, a feat which has no parallel. See also the 
interesting discussion ibid., 309-335. 

51 Baladhuri, Futiih, 137. Various versions of the farewell speech in Ibn Hubaysh, 142f; cf. 
Tabari, Ta'rikh, I, 2395f; Sa'Id ibn Bitriq, II, 16. The anonymous Syriac chronicle, 251: he 
said: sazu siiriya (= sosou Syria). 


48 



THE DISMISSAL OF KHALID IBN AL-WALlD [SECS. 63-64] 


which Khalid had given Ash'ath b. Qays, leader of the Kinda tribe. At that 
moment, ‘Umar ordered his dismissal, even if what he had given Ash'ath 
came out of his own pocket. This action is understandable against the 
background of‘Umar’s general policy of struggling with intense energy 
against corruption in the division of the spoils. He also exerted consider¬ 
able effort in trying to restrict occurrences of theft and the abuse of local 
populations. To pursue this policy, he travelled from Medina to Jabiya, 
where the headquarters of al-Sham was stationed. In place of Khalid, he 
appointed Abu ‘Ubayda ibn al-Jarrah to the high command. Khalid ex¬ 
pressed his disappointment and bitterness on his dismissal ‘now that 
al-Sham was as quiet as a camel’, but did not dare to rise up against 
‘Umar. 52 

[64] One can mention three focal points associated with the internal 
struggle echoed in the issue of Khalid’s dismissal. First is the frictions and 
contradictions between the various tribes of the peninsula who had been 


52 Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 2526; see ibid, 2148, the versions ofSayfibn ‘Umar and of Ibn Ishaq, 
which antedate Khalid’s dismissal and relate it to ‘Umar’s grudge against him; ibid., 2401f: 
‘Umar came to al-Sham four times; he was shocked on coming to Jabiya to see Khalid ibn 
al-Walld’s cavalry wearing silk. He descended from his horse and started throwing stones 
at them and reprimanded them severely. Ibid., 2149: after he was summoned to Medina, 
‘Umar demanded of Khalid, ‘Oh, Khalid, take the money of God from under your 
bottom’, and confiscated 40,000 dirhams, of which half he found on his person. Ya'qubi, 
Ta’rikh, II, 168; ‘Umar ordered the spoils to be divided equally between all the tribes, with 
the exception of Lakhm and Judham (that is, inhabitants of Palestine), and said, ‘I shall 
never admit of any equality between those who have gone through all the hardships of the 
road and those who have merely stepped outside their doorway’. See also Ibn al-Athir, 
Kamil, II, 500f; Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 556; Nawawi, Tahdhib, I, 201: Zayd b. Thabit (who had 
been the Prophet’s secretary) was appointed to take charge of the division of spoils taken in 
the battle of the Yarmuk; Ibn Kathir, Biddya, VII, 44, on ‘Umar’s visit to al-Sham, and see 
ibid., 58, other versions, according to which he only visited Jabiya three times, but some 
say, only twice. Ibid., 16; immediately after the ousting of Khalid from the command, 
Abu ‘Ubayda took over arranging matters concerning the spoils, the main object being to 
deduct the fifth due to the Muslim treasury according to law and send it to Medina. Ibid., 
12: a version which describes the dismissal of Khalid as having occurred at the height of the 
battle of the Yarmuk. ‘Abd al-Jabbar, Tathbit, I, 230: ‘Umar’s policy aroused opposition 
among the Muslims. See Ibn al-Athir, Usd, I, 53: They heard ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab say in 
Jabiya in a sermon: ‘I herewith apologise to you for what Khalid ibn al-Walxd did. I 
ordered him to dedicate this property to the welfare of the Muhajiriin (the Muslim 
refugees from Mecca), but he gave it to the evil-doers, to the notables and to those of slick 
tongues. I therefore discharged him and appointed Abu ‘Ubayda ibn al-Jarrah’. Lammens, 
Mo'awia, 5, explains the deposing of Khalid after the battle of the Yarmuk by the fact that 
he belonged to the Banu Makhztim, wealthy people of Mecca (who were loyal allies of the 
Umayyads), and therefore ‘Umar mistrusted him and plotted against him. On Abu 
‘Ubayda, see ‘Azizi, I, 492f; II, 13, 16, 245: his name was ‘Amir b. ‘Abdallah b. al-Jarrah; 
the Prophet said about him that he is the most loyal in this umma (that is, of the Muslims). 
See the article Abu ‘Ubayda in EP (Gibb); he was one of the first Muslims and took part in 
all the battles. It is possible that ‘Umar saw in him a suitable successor. See a comprehen¬ 
sive discussion on the question of Khalid’s dismissal: De Goeje, Memoire, 65-70, 124-131; 
Caetani, III, 937. 


49 



THE CONQUEST 


gathered together within the Muslim camp. These tribes had diverse 
origins and previously had had little in common. A large portion of the 
army which fought in Palestine and Syria consisted of tribes who came 
from every part of the Arabian peninsula, but the main core consisted of 
men from Mecca, Medina, Ta’if and members of the tribes of northern 
Hijaz. There were also those tribes, or clans from the northwest of the 
peninsula, which were Yamanis (southerners) by extraction, such as Bali, 
and those assembled around ‘Amr ibn al-‘As in particular. The second 
focal point is the animosity between all these tribes, the Muslims who 
came from afar, and the local Arabs in the conquered lands, who enjoyed 
the fruits of victory, while those who had come from some distance were 
concentrated in Jabiya, the central camp of the Muslim army. The third 
focal point is arguments concerning attitudes to and the treatment of local 
populations. There were those who wished to exploit the victory until the 
very end, to confiscate all property, completely enslave the population, 
and distribute the houses and lands among the Muslims. These were the 
aspirations in a setting of vandalism, plunder and massacre. ‘Umar in¬ 
tended to solve these problems at their very roots and thus dismissed 
Khalid, who according to the traditions, typified the craving for spoils 
and riches and even discriminated between the Muslims themselves, 
apparently showing a partiality for the local tribes and his own retain¬ 
ers. The man who influenced ‘Umar with regard to restraining the Mus¬ 
lims and changing their approach to the local populations was Mu‘adh 
b. Jabal, who according to Muslim tradition, was a man of under¬ 
standing and a sort of expert on the economy and finances. He said to 
‘Umar: 

if the land shall be divided [that is to say, become the private property of the 
Muslims, including the local population], the portion meted out to people [to each 
of the Muslims] will be tremendous and they will waste it, and everything will 
become the property of one man or woman [that is, will fall into the hands of a 
few]; afterward the successors of the Muslims will follow [that is, their descend¬ 
ants] and they will find nothing. Consider the matter in such a way that will satisfy 
the first and the last generation. 

Thus ‘Umar arranged living conditions of the population under Muslim 
rule in such a manner as to preserve their personal liberty and property, 
according to conditions to be discussed further on. 53 


53 Abu ‘Ubayd, Amwal, 59; Baladhuri, Fuliih, 151f; Abu’l-Fida’, Mukhtaszr, I, 160: ‘Umar 
ibn al-Khattab was the first to organise a census of the tribes and to fix the allowances of 
the Muslims, in the year AH 20 (AD 641). Abu Zur‘a (MS), Ilf: ‘Umar came to Jabiya in 
the year 18 [AD 639], and arranged a general convention at which all the commanders 
handed over to him all the property they had collected; he introduced order into the army 
units and bases and fixed the allowances and payments; cf. Shaban, Islamic History , 26, 
41. 


50 



THE CAPITULATION OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 65-69] 

The capitulation of Jerusalem 

[65] In the autumn of the year 636, Palestine was under Muslim control, 
with the exception ofjerusalem and Caesarea. The latter was the capital of 
Palaestina prima, a fortified port with a large army stationed there. Hence 
the Muslims delayed attempting to capture it for a further five years. 
Jerusalem was also a stronghold and the approaches to it were difficult. It 
was manned by a Byzantine garrison and armoured units made up of the 
local inhabitants. The two cities were virtually in a state of siege although 
nowhere is it stated specifically that the Muslims had actually encircled 
them. But the roads were all cut off and impassable and while Caesarea still 
maintained its sea lanes, Jerusalem was completely severed from the rest of 
the country after the battle of the Yarmuk. We have already seen how 
Sophronius, the patriarch of Jerusalem, complained in his Christmas 
sermon in the year 634 that the people of Jerusalem could not reach 
Bethlehem for fear of the Arabs. 

The Muslim traditions contradict one another with regard to the date on 
which Jerusalem was captured. In Tabari, at one point, the year AH 15 
(AD 636) is mentioned and in another, the year 16 (637). Baladhurl says 
that the city surrendered in the year 17 (638). This information complies 
with the account ofTheophanes, who says that the city was under siege for 
two years (that is, after the battle of the Yarmuk). Further evidence that 
the city was indeed taken in 638 is the fact that the patriarch Sophronius is 
said to have died of sorrow shortly after the surrender of the town. 
Sophronius was appointed patriarch in the autumn of633 and it is said that 
he kept the position for four years. He died in March 638. 54 


54 On the presence of the Byzantine army in Jerusalem, see Tabari, Ta’rikh, l, 2398: Artabun 
stationed an immense army in Ramla (he probably meant Lod, as Ramla had not as yet 
been founded), and also an immense army in Jerusalem (Iliya). On the question of the date 
see Tabari, ibid., 2406: the year AH 15 (in the version of the treaty, to be discussed below, 
according to Sayt’b. ‘Umar); ibid., 2360, he mentions a date which is not dear, perhaps the 
end of the year AH 15 (evidently according to Ibn Ishaq: see ibid., 2346, and 2350 at the 
bottom of the page); Khalifa ibn Khayyat, l, 124: the year 16; Batadhuri, Futuh, 139; 
Theophanes, 339; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, II, 501: some say that Jerusalem was conquered in 
the year AH 16. On Sophronius, see SaTd ibn Bitriq, I, 12f: Sophronius was active in 
Alexandria against the patriarch Cyrus who supported the Monotheletism (see sec. 9 
above) of Heraclius (in the words of Sa‘Id, he was a Marum, accepting the stand of 
Marun). Afterwards, he left for Constantinople and there met the patriarch Sergius, who 
eventually decided to support Cyrus rather than Sophronius. Sophronius left for Jerusa¬ 
lem; he won the support of the monks and the population in the city and they elected him 
patriarch, for there was no patriarch in Jerusalem in those days; that is, in the second year 
of‘Umar’s caliphate (635). Cf. also Couret, ROC, 2(1987), 126f; see Schonborn, 83ff: 
Sophronius reached Jerusalem in the autumn of 633 and was immediately appointed 
patriarch, for the post was available. He was eighty-eight when he died (born in Damascus 
in January 550), see ibid., 54; but see also Le Quien, Oriens Christianus, III, 278, and therein 
various opinions regarding the year of Sophronius’ death, ranging from 636 to 644; and see 
further details on Sophronius, ibid., 264ff, 272 (the letter in which he complains of the 


5i 



THE CONQUEST 


[66] The sources do not provide us with many details on the fall of 
Jerusalem. They generally stress that the siege lasted a long time and that 
the inhabitants of Jerusalem were prepared to hand over the city only to 
the caliph himself. Thus ‘Umar came and received its capitulation. Other 
sources state that a delegation ofjerusalemites came tojabiya and that the 
details of the surrender were finalised there. Others point out that it was 
not ‘Umar himself who took on the task, but that he sent an army unit to 
Jerusalem headed by a man from al-Sham, Khalid b. Thabit b. Ta'in b. 
al-‘Ajlun al-Fahmi. This force started to assail the people ofjerusalem, but 
immediately afterwards, negotiations began and ‘Umar, in Jabiya, con¬ 
firmed the conditions of the treaty determined by Khalid b. Thabit. 55 

Arabs’ assaults). See also Annales Cavenses, 186, which has an impossible date for the 
conquest ofjerusalem-633. DhahabI, Ta’rikh, II, 20 tells us that in the year AH 16‘Umar 
came to al-Sham and conquered Jerusalem. Futuh (ascribed to WaqidI), I, 216f, claims that 
the siege ofjerusalem took place in the winter and lasted for four months; Bar Hebraeus, 
Chronicle (Bedjan), 103 (cf. Budge, 96) says that in the year AH 15, ‘Umar came to 
Palestine and Sophronius, the bishop ofjerusalem, came out to greet him; Ibn Khaldun, 
'Ibar, II, 949 reports the year AH 15, and some say AH 16. See the discussion on this 
subject in De Goeje, Memoire, 154ff, and Caetani, III, 920-959. 

35 See Ya‘qubl, Ta’rikh, II, 167: Abu ‘Ubayda wrote to ‘Umar about the prolonged resist¬ 
ance of the Jerusalemites while some claim that it was the people ofjerusalem themselves 
who demanded that ‘Umar grant them the sulh. ‘Umar came first tojabiya and from there 
to Jerusalem and arranged the matter of the sulh. Khalifa ibn Khayyat, I, 124, has a 
similar version in the name of Ibn al-Kalbl, according to whom Khalid ibn al-Walld also 
participated in the campaign against Jerusalem, at the head of the Muslim avant-garde. On 
Khalid ibn Thabit see Baladhuri, Futuh, 139; Ibn ‘Asakir, V, 29; he was called al-Fahmi, 
evidently because he was a client of the Banu Fahm, a tribe that lived along the shores of 
the Red Sea, see Caskel, II, s.v.: and see Ibn al-Athlr, Lubab, II, 229: al-Fahmi, since he 
belonged to a clan of Qays ‘Aylan, and see on this tribe Caskel, II, s.v. Qais b. an-Nas; 
Yaft‘1, I, 73; Subkl, Shija’, 47; see the long and very elaborate description of the taking 
of Jerusalem: Futuh (ascribed to WaqidI), I, 213ff: see also Constantinus Porphyrog. 
(Moravcsik), 82: ‘Umar captured Jerusalem craftily by promises given to Sophronius, 
bishop ofjerusalem, a wise and zealous man, that the churches would not be harmed; and 
this occurred after a siege which lasted two years. Goitein, Yerushalayim, 4(1952/3); 83 (= 
Ha-yishuv, 7) treats the information doubtfully with regard to ‘Umar’s coming tojerusa- 
lem. In his opinion, one should regard this information in the light of the tendency to 
enhance and elaborate on the circumstances of the taking ofjerusalem; he also assumes that 
one could find certain Jewish influences in these sources, such as the midrash to Is. x:34, 
‘and Lebanon shall fall by a mighty one’. Jerusalem will only be surrendered to a king, who 
is worthy of being called ‘a mighty one’ (BT Gittin 56b). Buss e, Judaism, 17(1968), 444f 
suggests the possibility that ‘ Amr ibn al-‘ As was the true conqueror ofjerusalem, but that 
it was ascribed to ‘Umar. This he deduces from a passage in Baladhuri which says that 
‘Amr ibn al-‘As stopped the siege of Caesarea in order to conquer Jerusalem. There is some 
logic to the assumption that the traditionists exaggerated the role of ‘Umar in the 
surrender ofjerusalem in order to glorify the event; however, this is an insufficient reason 
to utterly invalidate the historical value of these traditions, especially in view of the fact 
that ‘Umar’s visits to Palestine and Syria are described in these traditions not merely in 
connection with the conquest ofjerusalem, as has already been mentioned. See the opinion 
of Noth, Quellenkritische Studien, 161, who suggests giving credence to the tradition on 
‘Umar’s involvement in the matter of the treaty, although there is place for doubt as to 
whether the fact that the refusal of the people ofjerusalem to surrender to any other but 
him is what brought him from Medina tojabiya. 


52 



THE CAPITULATION OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 65-69] 


[67] In 638 Islam had already reached the heights ofits victories and now 
had only to bring events to a successful conclusion. The man whose role it 
was to stand at the head of these tremendous happenings came to receive 
the surrender ofjerusalem, the city of David, the capital of the Children of 
Israel, the city which Christianity had chosen as the living symbol of its 
victory. Muslim tradition takes great pains to present ‘Umar’s coming to 
Jerusalem as a demonstration of humility, modesty and austerity, evi¬ 
dently with a didactic purpose in mind. The caliph did not lose his head in 
the wake of the many victories and triumphs; he behaved as an orthodox 
Muslim should behave, disdaining the vanities of this world and exhib¬ 
iting those simple habits in keeping with the best of Bedouin tradition. He 
entered the city riding on a camel, wrapped in a cloak made of camel-hair. 
Men of the Muslim army, tribesmen, who had now spent four years in 
settled and cultivated lands, in Palestine and in Syria, were embarrassed by 
the sight of their supreme commander appearing in such a manner before a 
conquered people. They demanded that he dress in clothes suitable to the 
circumstances and that he ride on a horse, and not on a camel. ‘Umar 
refused the first request but accepted the second and enteredjerusalem on a 
horse, but held onto the reins of a camel. ‘For this makes me into another 
person’ he said; ‘I fear lest I grow too great in my own eyes and nothing 
favourable will come out of such a change.’ Theophanes’ description of 
‘Umar’s entry into Jerusalem is evidently influenced by this story, but it 
took on a derisive and hostile tone. The caliph’s entrance wearing worn 
clothing made of camel-hair appeared to him like the wearing of a preten¬ 
tious, hypocritical, mask. ‘Umar asked to see the temple built by King 
Solomon in order to turn it into a prayer site for his own ‘blasphemies’. 
The patriarch Sophronius cried out when he saw him: ‘So here is the 
abomination of desolation prophesied by Daniel and here he stands in the 
holy place ... this knight of righteousness’, continues Theophanes, ‘wept 
over the Christian people’. In Theophanes’ version, it was the patriarch 
who suggested that ‘Umar change his clothes and asked him to accept a 
cloak and garments of linen. But ‘Umar refused to wear them. After much 
convincing, he agreed, but only until his own apparel would be washed. 
Then he returned Sophronius’ garments and continued to wear his own 
clothes. 56 

[68] In Tabari, in the context of a passage concerning the conquest of 
Jerusalem which he copied from Sayf ibn ‘Umar, a version of a letter of 

56 See MaqdisI, Muthtr (Le Strange), 297: ‘Umar enteredjerusalem through the gate of the 

Prophet Muhammad (i.e., from the south). In Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 2407f, there is a similar 

story which speaks of a horse and a mule (or just any beast of burden). Theophanes, 339; 

Constantinus Porphyrog. (Moravcsik), see the previous note (as in Theophanes), cf. De 

Goeje, Memoire , 157f; Busse, Judaism, 17(1968), 447. 


53 



THE CONQUEST 


protection (aman or sulh) had been preserved, which ‘Umar gave to the 
people ofjerusalem, who were all Christians. According to Tabari, this 
document was written in Jabiya. This is what the letter says: 

In the name of God the merciful and compassionate. This is the covenant given by 
God’s slave ‘Umar, commander of the Believers, to the people ofjerusalem: He 
grants them security, to each person and his property; to their churches, their 
crosses, to the sick and the healthy, to all the people of their creed. We shall not 
station Muslim soldiers in their churches. We shall not destroy the churches nor 
impair any of their contents or their property or their crosses or anything which 
belongs to them. We shall not compel the people ofjerusalem to renounce their 
beliefs and we shall do them no harm. No Jew shall live among them in Jerusalem. 
The people of Jerusalem are obliged to pay the same tax we impose on the 
inhabitants of other cities. The inhabitants ofjerusalem must rid themselves of the 
Byzantine army and any armed individuals. We ensure the safety of these people 
on their departure from Jerusalem, both of their persons and of their property, 
until they reach their asylum. To those who wish to remain in Jerusalem, we 
ensure their safekeeping but they are obliged to pay the same tax that the other 
inhabitants ofjerusalem must pay. To those inhabitants ofjerusalem who wish to 
join the departing Byzantines in person and with their property, to vacate their 
churches and abandon their crosses, we pledge to ensure the safety of their persons 
and that of their churches and crosses, until they reach their destinations. Those 
villagers who are present [in Jerusalem] since the murder of so-and-so, should 
depart with the Byzantines, if they wish to do so, or return to their families; 
nothing will be collected from them before the harvest. 

An analysis of this version of the ‘covenant’ reveals certain general prin¬ 
ciples in common with those which the Prophet contracted with thejews 
during the Tabuk expedition, which we have mentioned earlier, but it also 
reveals other distinctive principles. The recurring principles may be sum¬ 
marised as follows: (1) security of person and property, (2) security of the 
houses of worship, their property and contents; as well as freedom of 
worship, and (3) the obligation to pay taxes to the Muslims. The dis¬ 
tinctive principles appearing in this covenant are (1) the ban on Jews’ 
residing injerusalem, (2) assurance of the personal safety of Byzantines or 
other armed individuals, and also that of any inhabitant ofjerusalem who 
decides to leave the city, until they reach an area under Byzantine domin¬ 
ion, (3) permission to members of the Byzantine army or Byzantine 
officials to remain in the city on condition that they pay the same taxes as 
the remainder of the city’s inhabitants, and (4) the safety of refugees 
currently living injerusalem should they wish to return to their villages, 
and the promise that they would not be obliged to pay the taxes until after 
the harvest. 57 

57 Tabari, Ta’rikh , I, 2405f. The letter of protection in the original is called aman. Jerusalem is 
called Iliya; ‘the sick and the healthy’ are not to be understood literally but as a figure of 
speech meaning, ‘to everyone without exception’. The tax is called jizya, a term which as 
yet did not mean specifically poll-tax, as it did later; ‘armed men’ is a liberal and 


54 



THE CAPITULATION OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 65-69] 


[69] Goitein claims that this version of the covenant is not plausible and 
that one cannot rely on the source in which it has been preserved, namely 
the account of Sayf ibn ‘Umar, from which Tabari copied. Goitein ques¬ 
tions Sayf s authenticity on other subjects as well, where his versions show 
bias and differ from those of other traditions. He goes on to mention a 
number of other traditions dealing with the surrender ofjerusalem, which 
contain no trace of a covenant with its inhabitants, or a ban on Jews’ 
abiding in the city. We shall examine a number of other sources which tell 
of the surrender ofjerusalem. 

The traditions about Khalid b. Thabit in Baladhuri and in Ibn ‘Asakir 
portray him as the conqueror of Jerusalem and make reference to an 
agreement which was reached (according to Baladhuri in exchange for 
payment and only referring to within the walled city) and which ‘Umar 
authorised afterwards. Elsewhere in his chronicle Ibn ‘Asakir quotes 
another and strange version from WaqidI, according to which the agree¬ 
ment was made with the Jews who were in Jerusalem, twenty in number, 
their leader being Joseph bin Nun (!). According to this agreement, the 
inhabitants of Jerusalem had to pay jizya and in return were promised 
security of their persons, property and their churches, on condition that 
they would not revolt nor harbour rebels. Apparently the idea of the 
twenty Jews relates to another matter, which is that of the twenty Jews 
who later served on the Temple Mount. Theophanes, in his account of 
‘Umar’s visit tojerusalem, mentions the fact that Sophronius, patriarch of 
Jerusalem, handed over the city in exchange for a logos, which in this 
context, undoubtedly means a promise. Ya‘qubl evidently knew the story 
found in Ibn ‘Asakir, and the substance of the covenant he mentions is 
similar, but he claims that there was a difference of opinion with regard to 
the sulk in Jerusalem. Some say it was made with the Jews, but the 
prevailing opinion is that it was made with the Christians. The Christian 
Said ibn Bitriq, who elsewhere relates that it was forbidden for Jews to 
abide in Jerusalem from the time of Constantine and afterwards, brings up 
the subject of the covenant and a version of it, in which the safety of 
person, property and the church is included, without mentioning the ban 
on Jews living in Jerusalem at all. We find in Musharraf information about 

approximate translation of the word lusut, evidently identical with the Hebrew word 
listim , both taken from the Greek: lestes, robber. But it is not likely that the Christians in 
Jerusalem would ask for a clause to be included in the pact giving protection to robbers, 
therefore the meaning here is evidently: inhabitants who are not in the army but who 
participated in the defence of the city. Villagers (literally: people of the soil) were appar¬ 
ently refugees from the villages who sought refuge in Jerusalem when the Muslims took 
large stretches of Palestine. The letter apparently mentioned some murder that frightened 
the population and drove many of them to seek refuge in Jerusalem, but the copyist of the 
letter was not interested in copying the name of the victim (or victims) and wrote, the 
murder of so-and-so ( fidan ). 


55 



THE CONQUEST 


a letter sent by Abu ‘Ubayda to the people ofjerusalem in which he tries to 
convince them to turn to Islam. Mutahhar b. Tahir al-Maqdisi notes that 
‘Umar concluded the sulh with the people ofjerusalem, which according 
to him entailed the security of the churches and the assurance that the 
monks would not be exiled. Ibn al-Athir, who generally copied from 
Tabari, points out with regard to Jerusalem only that a jizya was imposed 
on its citizens. The same applies to al-Makin, and although Tabari is also 
his principal source, he only mentions the beginning of a version of the 
agreement and does not mention the Jewish matter at all. The Christian 
chronicler Agapius (Mahbub) of Manbij tells how the patriarch Sophro- 
nius goes out to greet ‘Umar on his arrival injerusalem from Medina and 
receives a covenant from him, bearing his seal, but only mentions the 
Jewish aspect: that of the absence of any protection for any Jew living in 
Jerusalem, and that, if found there, they would be punished physically and 
their property affected. Similarly Michael the Syrian indicates only ‘that 
no Jew is permitted to live injerusalem’, as is the case with Bar Hebraeus. 

Although there is some doubt as to the authenticity of Sayfs infor¬ 
mation (which was copied by Tabari), and although contradictions appear 
in his accounts, it appears that we cannot disregard him altogether. The 
version itself seems to be reliable; it is possible that the passage in which the 
year (15) is incorrect, was added by Tabari, or perhaps by Sayf himself. 
The names of the witnesses mentioned therein, all of whom were import¬ 
ant figures in the Muslim command, seem artificial; but the language of 
the covenant and its details appear authentic and reliable and in keeping 
with what is known ofjerusalem at that time. We have seen that most of 
the Muslim sources ignore the details of the pact, apart from the funda¬ 
mentals - security and taxes. On the other hand, as one might anticipate, 
the subject of the Jews appeared important to almost all the Christian 
chroniclers, for here was a ban forbidding the Jews to live injerusalem. 
The question still remains as to how thisjewish aspect could be adapted to 
the historical fact (proven by a number of sources) that the Jews indeed 
settled injerusalem shortly after the conquest. I shall attempt to find some 
explanation for this contradiction. 58 


58 Goitein, Melila, 3—4 (1949/50), 158ff; see also his article Yerushalayim, 4(1952/3), 84ft. An 
important argument against the reliability of Sayfibn ‘Umar is his inaccuracy with regard 
to the year of the conquest of Jerusalem. See on this matter the remark of Noth, 
Quellenkritische Studien, 57, that the chronological frameworks are generally the work of 
editors (in this case, Tabari); therefore the essential value of the genuine tradition remains 
intact even though the chronological sequence is not correct. See Baladhuri and Ibn 
‘Asakir, above in n. 55; cf. also Ibn A‘tham, I, 296: the sulh was attained through the 
mediation of a tribesman of Palestine (certainly this is what he meant by musta'riba) sent by 
‘Umar whose name was Abu’l Ju‘ayd. The agreement contained a stipulation on the 
payment of the jizya and permission to remain in the city. The Jews are not mentioned 


56 



THE COMPLETION OF THE CONQUEST [SECS. 70-74] 

The completion of the conquest 

[70] The most difficult areas to conquer were principally the cities along 
the coast, which were surrounded by walls on all sides facing the land. The 
Muslims were unable to attack them from the sea, having only land forces. 
This refers mainly to Tripoli, Caesarea and Ascalon. Apparently, Hebron 
also held out longer than the other dries in the country. We have no 
information about Hebron from Muslim sources, but from a compara¬ 
tively later Christian source, contained in a manuscript from the fifteenth 
century, is the story of two monks from Hebron at the time of the 
Crusades. Most of the text is concerned with the discovery of the graves of 
the patriarchs, which occurred (as we know from Arab sources) in the year 


here. According to him, the amati is still with the Christians in Jerusalem ‘until this very 
day’. Cf. the anonymous Syriac chronicle, 225: the agreement was made with Abu 
Ju’aydad (!), who was one of the two heads of the city of Jerusalem, the other being the 
bishop Sophronius. See also Futiih (ascribed to WaqidI), I, 226: Abu Ju'ayd (who was 
involved in the battle of the Yarmuk) was the one who advised the Christians not to rebel 
against the Muslims. He proved to them that it was the Muslims who were truly the 
righteous mentioned in the Bible and the New Testament ( injil ) - as after the Christians 
displayed the valuables in their possession, on his advice, none of the Muslims laid a hand 
on them. See a similar story in al-Himyarl, 151; in connection with the valuables, Stratos, 
134ff, points to the fact that during the taking ofjerusalem, most of the church treasures 
were no longer in their place, but had been removed after the battle of the Yarmuk via 
Caesarea to Constantinople, together with the Holy Cross, and he notes the fact that they 
were displayed in the Church of St Sophia in Constantinople during the last three days of 
Easter week. SeeMaqdisi, Muthir, 298: ‘Umar sent a manoftheBanuJadhlla and it was he 
who conquered Jerusalem; see the additional tradition in Ibn ‘Asakir, II, 323; Theophanes, 
339; Ya'qubI, Ta’rikh, II, 167f; Sa‘id ibn Bitriq, I, 133, and II, 17; Musharraf, fol. 18; 
Maqdisi, Bad’, V, 185; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, II, 501; Agapius (PO VIII), 215; the anony¬ 
mous Syriac chronicle, 255: ‘that no Jew shall live in Jerusalem’; Michael the Syrian 
(Chabot), 419, text; II, 425, translation; Bar Habraeus, Chronicle (Bedjan), 103, cf. the 
translation (Budge), 96; ‘Ulayml, 224, has an exact copy from Tabari; De Goeje, Memoire, 
155, finds it only natural that a ban on living in Jerusalem should have been applied to the 
Jews at that time. Logically, this was probably a concession, obtained by negotiations, to 
the Christians’ demands and their hatred of the Jews. An atmosphere of conciliation 
towards the Christians was also noticeable, in his opinion, in the fact that the covenant had 
no clauses to humiliate or restrain the Christians, such as are found in other letters of 
surrender of that time. Meinardus, Copts, 11, gives information from an anonymous 
source about the ‘Umar pact, in which Latins, Copts, Syrians, etc. are mentioned; of 
course, this information lacks any foundation whatsoever. Tabari has another tradition, 
also taken from Sayf ibn ‘Umar, in which the commanders of the army fighting in the 
battles around Jerusalem were: Abu’l-A'war, who was active in the north (‘in charge of 
Urdunn’), ‘Alqama ibn Hakim, Masruq b. ‘so-and-so’ (evidently he was not of Arab 
origin), Abu Ayyub al-Ansari, who is Khalid b. Zayd b. Kulayb. Abu Ayyub was an 
important figure in the Prophet’s day, see Ibn al-Athir, Usd, V 143f; he was from the 
family of the Banu al-Najjar, one of the first to adhere to Islam, and afterwards a retainer of 
‘All. It is said that he was of the lineage of a habr (a Jewish sage), see SamhudI, I, 189, cf.; 
Kister, IOS, 2 (1972), 233, n. 141; Gil, JSAI, 4(1984), 211. As to Abu’l-A‘war, he is ‘Amr 
b. Sufyan al-Sulaml, who received the surrender of Tiberias, see Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 2093, 
2159; Ibn al-Athir, Usd, IV, 108f; V, 138. 


57 



THE CONQUEST 


AH 513, that is AD 1119-1120. In this Christian manuscript there is a 
passage dealing with the Muslim conquest of Hebron: 

When they [the Muslims] came to Hebron they were amazed to see the strong and 
handsome structures of the walls and they could not find any opening through 
which to enter; then Jews happened to come, who lived in the area under the 
former rule of the Greeks [that is, the Byzantines], and they said to the Muslims: 
give us [a letter of security] that we may continue to live [in our places] under your 
rule [literally - amongst you] and permit us to build a synagogue in front of the 
entrance [to the city]. If you will do this, we shall show you where you can break 
in. And so they did . 59 

[71] As to the cities of the coast, according to Baladhuri, ‘Irqa, Jubayl 
and Beirut were easily taken shortly after the conquest of Damascus, 
evidently at about the end of the year 636. Baladhuri has it that the 
Byzantines attacked and took over the coastal cities again towards the end 
of‘Umar’s caliphate, or at the beginning of‘Uthman’s time, that is in 644; 
Mu'awiya returned and recaptured them, rebuilt them and stationed 
garrisons which lived off the taxes from the neighbouring countryside. 
Only Tripoli remained a hard nut to crack. In the days of ‘Uthman (ca. 
645), Mu‘awiya decided to capture it (Baladhuri explains that it was a city 
made up of three cities). He cut it off from the sea, put up a fortress a 
number of miles from the town and called it Sufyan, and completely 
blockaded the city. The entire population concentrated in one of the city’s 
citadels. They wrote to the emperor requesting that he send ships to 
evacuate them to areas under his dominion. The ships actually arrived and 
embarked with the population in the course of one night. According to Ibn 
‘Asakir, the inhabitants of the city set fire to the city as they were leaving. 
Only one Jew who had managed to escape the fire remained, and it was he 
who told the Muslims what had occurred. According to Ibn ‘Asakir, 
Mu‘awiya then placed a large number ofjews from al-Urdunn, that is, the 
north of Palestine, in the city’s citadel (which according to Baladhuri’s 
interpretation served as a port in his time). 60 


59 See the treatise of the Canonicus Hebronensis in RHC (Occ.), V, 309; see the introduction 
ibid., LXIII; see the discussion on this source in Riant, AOL, 2(1-1884), 411-421. This 
story is further proof that there actually was a synagogue in Hebron during the Muslim 
occupation. This synagogue existed until the Crusaders’ conquest, and this is also con¬ 
firmed by the Geniza documents, see below; the story is attributed to two monks, Eudes 
and Arnoul. See also Vincent, Hebron, 159, 167f, 178. The fragment was also edited by 
Assaf and Mayer, Sefer ha-yishuv, 6, which has a literal translation. Circa regionem iUam 
morati Jiierant does not mean: ‘who had remained under Greek rule in that area’; portam 
facere does not mean ‘to erect the gate’ but is an idiom. Vincent translates here: ‘indiquerent 
aux conquerants le point a degager pour se creer une entree’. 

60 See Baladhuri, Futuh, 126f; Ibn ‘Asakir, V, 183ff. A'tahum al-qata’i‘, I translate: he allotted 
them (the garrisons) the income from the land taxes. Afterwards, these sources say, the 
Christians were given permission to return and to settle in the town again, under the bitriq 


58 



THE COMPLETION OF THE CONQUEST [SECS. 70-74] 


[72] Caesarea was under siege more than once, evidently already in the 
year 13, injumada I, orjuly 634. But the Muslims despaired of capturing it 
at the time and this persisted until Mu'awiya finally took it in Shawwal of 
the year 19, or October 640. According to the tradition in Baladhuri, 
Mu‘awiya found in Caesarea 700,000 mercenaries, 30,000 Samaritans, 
200,000Jews, 300 markets, and 100,000 men guarding the walls of the city 
nightly. The town was captured with the help ofajew calledjoseph, ‘who 
came to the Muslims at night and showed them how to creep in through an 
underground trench in which the water reached up to one’s knees’; for 
this, he received an aman (letter of security), for himself and for his ahl (an 
expression that has various meanings: perhaps ‘his family’, or ‘his people’ 
or perhaps meaning to say ‘thejews’). It is quite possible that the sources, 
in referring to the capture of Caesarea, are influenced by the information 
on the conquest of Caesarea in Cappadocia by Maslama b. ‘Abd al-Malik 
in 729. He took captive the inhabitants of the city and sold them as slaves; 
the exception was thejews, as they were the ones who handed over the 
town to him. 61 

( patricius ), whose name was Buqantar, and these Christians undertook to pay taxes. But 
some fifty years later, in the days of‘Abd al-Malik, they rebelled, killed the governor, 
took prisoners among the Muslims and thejews, and took flight aboard ships. Afterwards 
they returned with Byzantine reinforcements and attempted to capture the town but their 
plan failed. They were subdued and their leader was crucified by ‘Abd al-Malik. There is 
also (ibid.) the interesting information that the Muslims usually kept a full garrison in the 
town only on days when it was possible to sail, whereas when the ‘sea was closed’, that is 
to say, during the winter months, it would be taken away from there. Cf. also Ibn 
al-Shaddad (MS Leiden 3076), 100b, who copied from Baladhuri and Ibn ‘Asakir. 

61 Baladhuri, Futiih, 141; the date is confirmed by Abu Ma'shar (died in 786), who was a 
contemporary of Ibn Ishaq (younger than him) and a Medinan who later moved to 
Baghdad; see on him Sezgin, I, 291f; WaqidI (quoted by Tabari) also gives this date. See 
the account of Abu Ma'shar in Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 2579, who also cites other opinions: of 
Ibn Ishaq - the year 20 (641), and of Sayf ibn‘Umar - the year 16 (637). It seems that if we 
divide the numbers in Baladhuri into a hundred, we shall arrive at numbers near the actual 
ones. Ya'qubI, Ta’rikh, II, 172: there were 80,000 fighters in Caesarea, and he has the year 
as AH 18 (AD 639). See further, Khalifa ibn Khayyat, I, 134; Sa‘Id ibn Bitriq, II, 20. In the 
seventh year of‘Umar’s reign (641); according to Yaqut, Buldan, IV, 214, the siege of 
Caesarea lasted seven years less one month. The man who showed the Muslims how to get 
in was a certain Lintak, who was their hostage (it does not say that he was a Jew), and the 
event occurred on Sunday when everyone was in church. Bar Hebraeus (Bedjan), 104b; 
(Budge), 97: the siege lasted five months (from December until May). A total of seventy- 
two shooting machines bombarded the attackers from the walls. Only after penetrating 
the walls while others were scaling the battlements on ladders, did the Muslims succeed in 
overcoming the defenders, who had been unable to descend from the walls into the town 
for three days. Seven thousand Byzantine soldiers (one-hundredth of the number given by 
Baladhuri), fled from Caesarea by sea. Caesarea in Cappadocia: Chabot, REJ, 29(1894), 
292, following an anonymous Syriac chronicle which he ascribed to Dionysius of Tel- 
Mahre, patriarch of the Jacobites (died in 845); Noth, Quellenkritische Studien, 24, 150, 
points to the uniformity of pattern (‘typology’) in the descriptions of the conquest of cities 
in Islamic traditions: Damascus, Caesarea, Babel (Babylon) of Egypt (afterwards Fustat), 
Alexandria, Tustar, Qurtuba: (a) the traitor reveals the weak spot in the defence, (b) the 


59 



THE CONQUEST 


[73] There is a difference of opinion with regard to Ascalon, as to 
whether it was taken by ‘Amr ibn al-‘As or Mu'awiya. Here too the 
resistance lasted longer than usual due to the assistance lent by the Byzan¬ 
tines to the town’s defenders from the sea. The traditions are generally in 
accord that the city was conquered only in 644. Baladhurl has it that at first 
Ascalon was captured by ‘Amr ibn al-‘As, but there was an uprising with 
the help of the Byzantines and Mu'awiya conquered it anew and stationed 
a garrison there. 62 

[74] During this period of the consummation of the conquests in Pal¬ 
estine, the Muslims suffered a cruel blow in the form of an undefined 
plague, known by the name of‘The Emmaus plague’. Many people died 
as a result, among them some of the most important of the Muslim 
commanders, Abu ‘Ubayda ibn al-Jarrah, Mu'adh b. Jabal, Yazid b. Abl 
Sufyan (Mu‘awiya’s brother) and others. The plague occurred in the year 
AH 18 (AD 639). ‘Umar tried to save Abu ‘Ubayda’s life, and in a letter 
ordered him to return to Medina, but the latter, understanding his in¬ 
tention, refused to go. When‘Umar learned of the deaths of Abu‘Ubayda 
and Yazid, he appointed Mu'awiya, Yazid’s brother, as commander in 
charge of the province (jund) of Damascus, and Shurahbil b. Hasana in 
charge of the province of Urdunn. 63 


The attitude of the population towards the conqueror 

[75] We have already discussed the episode of Hims and the conflicting 
accounts of this episode in the Muslim traditions and the Syriac-Christian 


population is occupied with something, such as a festival, etc., (c) the vanguard storms 
ahead on ladders; (d) the sounding of the takbir (allahu akbar) to proclaim victory, (e) the 
entrance gates are opened to the Muslim army from within. According to Ibn ‘Abd 
al-Hakam, 76, Caesarea was conquered in the same year Heraclius died, which was the 
year 20 (641), and see the year of his death in Vasiliev, History, I, 193; Stratos, 150ff, argues 
that the exact date of Heraclius’ death was 11 February, 641. In Suyuti, Ta’rikh, 132, the 
date of the conquest of Caesarea is the year AH 19 (AD 640). 

62 Baladhurl, Futuh, 142ff; Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 2798 (according to Sayfibn ‘Umar); Ya'qubI, 
Ta’rikh, II, 170:Sa‘Id ibn Bitriq, II, 20; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, III, 77. 

63 Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 2516ff; Baladhurl, Futuh, 139f, mentions the ages of the dead: Abu 
‘Ubayda, fifty-eight, Mu'adhb. Jabal, thirty-eight (he died in the vicinity of Uqhuwana in 
the Urdunn region); Shurahbil b. Hasana (contrary to the information in Tabari concern¬ 
ing his appointment by ‘Umar), sixty-nine. Ya‘qubl, Ta’rikh, II, 172: 25,000 died; Ibn 
Qudama, 140, Mu‘adh b. Jabal died after he was appointed commander to replace Abu 
‘Ubayda in a town between Ramla and Jerusalem, at the age of thirty-three; Tha'alibI, 
Thimar, 546f, has a sort of play on words on the subject- saying that the people ofal-Sham 
are famous for their submissiveness to the rulers (ta'a-ta'iin) and the plagues ( ta‘un). 
Vincent et Abel, Emmaus, 357, point out that from the fact that the famous plague was 
named after Emmaus (while it was known that it raged throughout Palestine and Syria), 
one can understand that this place must have been the major concentration point for 
Muslim troops at the time. 


6o 



THE ATTITUDE OF THE POPULATION [SECS. 75-80] 


chronicles. We have also seen the description by a Syriac source of the 
slaughter of the local population in this region. In addition, we have taken 
note of the Muslim sources that speak of the aid rendered by thej ews to the 
Muslims in the conquest of Hebron and Caesarea, and the episode of the 
Jews in Tripoli. One should take note that the latter sort of information is 
found only in the Muslim traditions. Naturally, it is impossible to learn 
the real truth in this case, but one can assume that the local population 
suffered immensely during the course of the war and it is very likely that 
many villages were destroyed and uprooted in the frontier regions, and 
that the lot of these local populations was very bitter indeed. It appears that 
the period of the conquest was also that of the destruction of the syn¬ 
agogues and churches of the Byzantine era, remnants of which have been 
unearthed in our own time and are still being discovered. This assumption 
is based both on what is said in a few Christian sources I have mentioned 
and on Muslim sources describing ‘Umar’s visits to al-Sham. There is no 
doubt that one of the main purposes of these visits was to establish order 
and put an end to the devastation and slaughter of the local population. 64 

[76] One should recall that the Muslim invasion of Palestine occurred 
only some five or six years after the tremendous upheaval of the wars 
between Persia and Byzantium, that is, after the defeat of the ‘kingdom of 
Edom’ and then its victory. One can assume that great messianic hopes 
were aroused among the Jews of Palestine and that they wove what was 
happening into the pattern of events of the days of redemption as foretold 
by the prophets of Israel and the book of Daniel. The Muslims certainly 
did not appear to them as the instruments of salvation, but only as its 
harbinger. The Muslim conquests were perceived as an essential stage 
determined in advance by Providence for the coming of the Messiah. 

Evidence of these moods can be found in ‘The Mysteries of Rabbi 
Shimon Bar Yohai’; though written some generations after the conquests, 
it contains some basic ideas which were perhaps prevalent among the 


M As to the attitude of the Jews towards the Muslims, the Arab sources themselves were 
inclined to laud themselves on the good relationship between the Muslims and the 
subdued population, and the Christian sources attempted, for their own reasons, to 
describe the Jews as allies of the Muslims; we can see an element of this in the story of the 
taking of Hebron as related by monks of the Crusaders’ period; cf. Ghevond, 2; this 
Armenian chronicler who lived in a distant land, some ten generations after the Muslim 
conquest, claims to know of the Prophet’s command before his death that the Muslims 
should ask for the aid of the Jews, and that the latter would show them the way to conquer 
the world. Thejews welcomed this idea, for God had promised Abraham’s heirs that they 
would dominate the world. As they themselves had transgressed and were excluded from 
ruling, then at least the Arabs, themselves also of the seed of Abraham, would gain 
supremacy. The Armenian bishop Sebeus also describes a sort of cabal between thejews 
and the Arabs against the Christians, see his chronicle in a French translation (Macler), 
102ff. One need not ascribe any historical significance to this kind of story. 

6i 



THE CONQUEST 


Jews of Palestine during the conquests. The kingdom of Edom was seen as 
the kingdom of the wicked. The secrets were revealed to Rabbi Shimon 
Bar Yohai ‘when he was hidden from the emperor, king of Edom, in a 
cave’. One is speaking here, naturally, of‘Mysteries of the End’. At the 
beginning one finds a homily based on ‘and he looked on the Kenites’ 
(Num., xxiv:21): 

As soon as he saw the Kingdom of Ishmael was coming, he began to say: Was it not 
enough for us what the wicked Kingdom of Edom has done to us; now [there 
comes] also the Kingdom of Ishmael? Immediately Matatron, the sar ha-panim 
[Prince of the Presence (?)], retorted, saying to him: do not fear, man, the 
Almighty only brings the Kingdom of Ishmael in order to save you of this wicked 
one, and he appoints over them a prophet of His wish, and will conquer the Land 
for them; they will restore it to its grandeur; and a great fear will befall the Children 
of Esau. 

This idea, the perception of Muhammad as a prophet sent by God to the 
Arabs, merits some attention, particularly if it also reflected the attitude of 
the Jews at the time of the conquest, something whose truth can never be 
ascertained. The archetype of the prophet sent to the gentiles is, of course, 
Balaam. In the midrash it is also stated: ‘just as He [the Almighty] placed 
angels and sages and prophets in Israel, so did he do similarly for the 
nations of the world’. The treatise on the argument between Jews and 
Christians in Palestine (the Didaskalia of Jacob the recently baptised), 
speaks of the rumour that spread among the Jews of Palestine about the 
rising of a prophet from among the Arabs. Arab sources also tell ofjews 
who agreed that Muhammad was really the messenger of God, but only to 
the Arabs. 65 

[77] This midrash of the ‘Mysteries of Shimon Bar Yohai’ sees the 

65 See the midrash injellinek, Bel ha-midrash, III, 78ff, edited from the Salonika edition, 1743, 
re-edited by Even Shemuel; see his Midreshe ge’ulla 2 , 187ff (a version adapted by the editor, 
which deprives it of any scientific value). See the introductions to these two editions. 
Parallel versions can be found in ‘The prayer of Rabbi Shimon Ben Yohai’. See injellinek, 
ibid. , IV, 117ff, and in Even Shemuel, 268ff; also in ‘The Midrash on the Ten Kings’ edited 
by H. M. Horovitz, Bet ‘ eqed ha-agadot, 38ff (and see the parallel fragment on pp. 51f). The 
Kenite, Jethro’s tribe, is identified in the Targum with Bene Salma’a, which was a 
by-name for the Arabs in the Byzantine period; see Urbach, Eretz Israel, 10(1970/71), 60, 
n. 13; Gil, JSAI, 4(1984), 217f; it is natural that the midrash identifies the Kenite here with 
Ishmael. Crone and Cook, 37, surmised that in the passage from ‘The mysteries of Rabbi 
Shimon Bar Yohai’ where the Kenite is mentioned, a different source was inserted into the 
midrash, therefore one must differentiate between Kenites and Ishmaelites; but this has no 
foundation. The nature and timing of the midrash has been extensively treated in research 
literature, see the bibliography in Baron, SRHJ, III, 274, n. 27; see particularly the 
opinions of Graetz (Hebrew), III, 433, n. 16; Baer, MGIVJ, 70(1926), 162f, n. 6; Stein- 
schneider, ZDMG, 28(1874), 636f, 639, 642, draws attention to Byzantine elements in the 
midrash; Lewis, BSOAS, 13(1949-51), 309; see pp. 321ff, where he claims that the Kenite 
means Rome and Byzantium, and in its later sections, the Crusaders; but this is not 
correct. See also his article in A. Abel Memorial Volume : 197, where he tries to prove that 
the piyyiit, ‘On that day’, edited by Ginzberg, Ginze Schechter, II, 310ff refers to the 


62 



THE ATTITUDE OF THE POPULATION [SECS. 75-80] 


mission of Islam as the disabling and elimination of the Byzantine empire. 
But later on, it compares this mission with that of the Messiah himself, and 
has an interpretation of Is., xxi:6-7 (‘And he saw a chariot with a couple of 
horsemen, a chariot of asses, and a chariot of camels’), as ‘why does he put 
before a chariot of camels, a chariot of asses? [It should] not [be] a chariot 
of asses, a chariot of camels but: a chariot of camels a chariot of asses. Once 
he started he rides a camel; when his kingdom has grown under his rule, he 
rides an ass; in other words: since he rides an ass, the conclusion is that they 
are a salvation for Israel, equal to the salvation of the one who will ride an 
ass’ (i.e., the Messiah). Interestingly enough, echoes of this Jewish exege¬ 
sis reached Muslim writers. Thus BIrum says in the eleventh century, 

Such or similar to this is the interpretation of the saying of Isaiah [Isha'ya] the 
prophet: God ordered him to place a scout on a watch-tower who shall say what he 
observes [‘what he shall see he will say’]; and he [the scout] said: I see a rider on an 
ass and a rider on a camel; and one of the two stood up and shouted: Babylon has 
fallen and all its wooden idols are broken (Is., xxi:9). And the interpretation of 
these tidings is [the coming of] the Messiah [that is to say, Jesus] who is riding the 
ass, and Muhammad, who is riding the camel. 66 

[78-79] The manner of viewing Islam can be seen in the term ‘little 
horn’, which thejews customarily applied to the Muslim rule, according 

conquest of Palestine by the Muslims. The contents of the piyyut: the coming of the 
Messiah, son of David; cosmic changes; the war between the east and the west; the west is 
victorious; Kingjoktan wages war and wins; thejews are redeemed, ‘the kings ofEdom 
disappear’; Antioch rebels; Tiberias (Maaziah) and Samaria ‘will be consoled’; Acre and 
the Galilee ‘will meet mercy’; war in the Acre valley; ‘Gaza and its surrounding towns will 
be stoned’; Ascalon and Ashdod will panic; thejews leave the city; for forty days ‘they will 
not have a grain to eat’; the Messiah arrives. In my opinion, this piyyut has no reliable 
foothold on which to determine its date. See further on the midrash under discussion: 
Ashtor (Strauss), Zion, 4 (1938/9), 51 (on ‘the prayer of Rabbi Shimon Bar Yohai); 
Urbach, Eretz Israel, 10(1970/71), 58-63. On Balaam and his metamorphosis in the Arab 
tradition see Gil, JSAI, 4(1984), 215ff. The midrash on the prophets of the nations, see in 
Ba-midbar Rabba, xx (at the beginning). The Didaskalia, see the Bonwetsch edition, 86; in 
fact, the source calls the prophet of the Arabs pianos prophetes (false prophet); see ‘Abd 
al-Jabbar, Shark, 577; Tihawl, Shark, III, 214: it is not enough for a Jew to declare that there 
is no God but Allah, and that Muhammad is his messenger, in order to become a Muslim, 
for it is possible that he is attached to the view which says that Muhammad is God’s 
messenger only to the Arabs. On the readiness of some Jewish sects (Abu ‘Isa al-Isfahani, 
‘Anan) to admit Muhammad’s divine mission to the Arabs, see QirqisanI, I, 52 (Book I, 
11.2), III, 283f (Book III, 13.2); MaqrizI, Khitat, III, 372; cf. Poznanski, REJ, 44(1902), 
178. 

66 Birunl, 19, see also Karajili, 91; Ibn Zafar, Khayr al-bishr, 17; Ibn al-jawzl, Waja’, I, 61. 
Another interpretation is found in a letter attributed to the emperor Leo III (717—741) to 
caliph ‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘AzIz (717-720): the riders are but one person. The ass is the 
Jewish nation (and the reasons for this are provided there, but they are self-evident); the 
camel is the Midianites and the Babylonians, who make frequent use of this animal. The 
writer hints that the rider is actually Satan himself, who in the course of riding these 
animals (that is, thejews and the pagans) instilled false belief (that is, Islam) among the 
Arabs. See a version of the letter as in Ghevond, the Armenian chronicler (ca. 900), in 
Jeffery, HTR, 37(1944), 327ff. Cf. Von Grunebaum, Medieval Islam 2 , 17f. 


63 



THE CONQUEST 


to Daniel, vii:8. 67 Between the horns which symbolise in this book the 
gentile kingdoms, this is the last horn before ‘the Ancient of Days’ will sit 
on the seat of judgment; that is to say that Muslim dominion was con¬ 
ceived as the last stage before the Day of Judgment and salvation. The 
Christians saw in ‘Umar on his entry into Jerusalem ‘the abomination of 
desolation’, also based on the book of Daniel. On the other hand, a 
Muslim tradition tells how ‘Umar asked the bishop ofjerusalem: ‘Do you 
really find me in the book?’ and the bishop replied: ‘yes’. ‘And how do you 
find me?’ The answer came: ‘I find you a horn, a horn of iron, true and 
strong’ (perhaps suggested by Mic., iv.13). 68 

[80] It seems that the atmosphere of the End of the Days which the 
Muslim forces felt in Palestine is reflected in the tradition of the dajjal, a 
sort of apocalyptic creature who must be killed before the coming of the 
Day ofjudgment. Some traditions attribute the victory over the dajjal and 
his slaughter to Jesus, and others to ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab. He abides in 
Palestine near the gates of Lod. In the tradition ofTabari, ajew foretold to 
‘Umar, when he met him near Jabiya, that God will grant himjerusalem 
and that the Arabs under his command will kill the dajjal, who is located 
less than ten cubits from the gates of Lod. The dajjal belongs to the tribe of 
Benjamin. In another version of the tradition, Tabari relates, in continu¬ 
ation, that thejew was from thejews of Damascus. This other version also 
mentions that the Jews said of the dajjal that he was from the tribe of 
Benjamin. The explanation of the gate of Lod can be found in the work of 
al-Musharraf b. Murajja, a Jerusalemite of the eleventh century, who 
explains that it does not mean ‘the gate of the church near Ramla’ (St 
George of Lod) but the western gate of the city ofjerusalem (David’s gate, 
the western one, which is near mihrab Da’iid). The term dajjal is evidently 
borrowed from the Syriac, meshihd dagla, a false messiah; as for example in 
the Syriac translation of Mat., xxiv:24; in the Greek original it is 
pseudokhristoi. 69 

67 This expression is found mainly in Karaite writings, which apply ‘the little horn’ to the 
number of hijra years. See, for instance, the fragments of the Karaite calendar, ed. Gil, 
ha-Tustanm, 86ff, and the Hebrew Index. 

68 See Ibn al-Athlr, Jami‘, IV, 482; al-Tabari al-Muhibb, II, 38, attributes these words not to 
the bishop but to Ka‘b al-Ahbar who even interprets the meaning of the iron horn as 
always being innocent in the eyes of God. See also HalabI, Sira, I, 239; Zamakhshari, 
Khasa'is, 61, who ascribes these words to ‘Abdallah b. Salam, a Jew of Medina who 
accepted Islam. 

69 Tabari, Ta’rtkh, I, 2402f; cf. TayalisI, 170; in which the killing of the dajjal is ascribed to 
Jesus, and is told in the name of Mujammi‘ b. Jariya, one of Muhammad’s opponents in 
Medina; see Musharraf, 79b-80a. Musharraf s version contradicts what MuqaddasI, Aqd- 
llm, 176, wrote some two generations earlier: ‘[in Lod] there is a magnificent church, 
where alongside its gate Jesus will kill the dajjal. See also: BIruni, 212; Ibn al-Faqih, 95, 
117, who quotes a conversation between a Muslim and the people of Lod: the Muslim 
claims that the church of St George was built for King Solomon by the devils ( al-shaydtln ) 


64 



THE EPISODE OF THE TEMPLE MOUNT [SECS. 81-87] 

The episode of the Temple Mount and the return of the Jews to 

Jerusalem 

[81] The Muslim traditions ascribe special significance to Caliph 
‘Umar’s visit to the Temple Mount. Most of them add to his entourage on 
this visit Ka‘b al-Ahbar, a Jew from the southern part of the Arabian 
peninsula who joined the Muslims, turned to Islam and was considered an 
authority on matters of the Jews and their Torah. According to the 
Muslim tradition (and there is no reason to doubt it), the Byzantines 
turned the Temple Mount into Jerusalem’s refuse dump from the time of 
Helena, the mother of Constantine. One should remember that Jerusalem 
was not foreign to the consciousness of the Muslim conquerors. The first 
qibla (the direction turned to in prayer), taken by Muhammad in Mecca 
was towards Jerusalem, and even during his stay in Medina, he continued 
for some time (it is generally thought to be sixteen months but there are 
different versions) to turn towards Jerusalem while praying, until God 
‘sent down’ the order to turn the qibla in the direction of Mecca (Koran 
ii:l 39); he then even made changes in his mosque in Medina, which since 

while the people of Lod (that is, the Christians) reply that everything that seems sump¬ 
tuous to the Muslims, they ascribe to the devils; obviously this building was constructed 
much earlier than the birth of Solomon by many generations. Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 215, 217, 
606-619; Yaqut, Bulddn, IV, 592f; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, II, 501; Qurtubi, Tadhkira, 232; the 
tradition ofjesus killing the dajjal in his text is linked by him with the war of the End of the 
Days carried on by ‘Urwa al-Sufyani (with the hope of regaining the glory of the 
Umayyads) who will be defeated. His army will be dispersed and he will be found on the 
highest tree alongside the Sea of Galilee; cf. Sha'ranI, Mukhtasar, 197; QurashI, 508; Ibn 
Hajar al-Haythaml, Sawa'iq, 165; Samarqandl, Bustan, 100: the dajjal has still not been 
born; he will appear at the End of the Days, masses ofjews will follow him, untiljesus will 
arrive and kill him at the gate of Lod in Jerusalem. See the collection of traditions relating 
to Jesus’ struggle with the dajjal in SuyutI, in the supplement to Tabaranl, Mu'jam, II, 210f; 
in SamhudI, ibid., I, 87, who quotes from Ibn Zabala (who finished his book in 814, see 
SamhudI, ibid., 7, 252), the killing of the dajjal will take place in the vicinity of the basalt 
plateau (liana) east of Medina; ‘then their faces will shine on the Day of Resurrection like 
the light of the full moon’; these words are attributed to Ka‘b al-Ahbar as he found them in 
the tawrah (there is perhaps some influence of Zech., xiv:4—7); ‘Azlzl, III, 246, 485; Jesus 
will kill the dajjal at the gate of Lod. Modern scholarship relates this tradition to the church 
of St George in Lod, where this saint who killed the dragon was venerated. Gutschmid, 
184, attempted to prove that this veneration had ancient roots, going back to the time of 
Persian rule. Cf. Baedeker, Palestine and Syria, 136; Couret, La Palestine, 235; Stein- 
schneider, ZDMG, 28(1874), 343: a tradition on Jesus and the dajjal which mentions the 
eastern tower near Bab Jayrun in Damascus (The Gate ofjayrun is also mentioned in ‘The 
Mysteries of Rabbi Shimon Bar Yohai’). See the discussion on the dajjal and the church of 
St George in Lod, in Noldeke, Sitzungsberichte (Wien), 128(1893), 27, n. 2, who quotes 
MuqaddasI and Ibn al-Faqih. It is possible to point to a certain parallelism between the 
tradition of the killing of the dajjal at the gate of Lod and the Talmudic tradition of the 
stoning of Ben StadainLod; see Tosejia. Sanh. i:ll (Zuckerm, 431) and in the PT, ibid., vii, 
25d; see Nau, ROC, 6(1901), 525, 531, and the parallels he mentions on the origin ofjesus 
and the matter of Pantir, with regard to the letter of Jacob of Edessa which he edits there 
(without linking it to the Muslim tradition of the dajjal)-, cf. Bell, Origin, 202. 


<55 



THE CONQUEST 


then has been called also the masjid al-qiblatayn, the mosque with two 
directions of prayer. According to the story ofRaja’ b. Hayawa (one of the 
most important Palestinian personalities in the days of the Umayyads, at 
the beginning of the eighth century), as Tabari has copied it, ‘Umar 
ordered Ka‘b to be brought to him when he was approaching the Temple 
Mount. Afterwards he came to the mihrab Da’ud (apparently meaning the 
Temple Mount). As it was already night, he began to pray there; at dawn 
he prayed with his men and read the siirat sad (xxxviii), and siirat barn Isra’il 
(xvii); in the first one the religions which preceded Islam are mentioned, as 
are David, whom God made caliph over the earth, Solomon, Abraham, 
Isaac, Jacob and Ishmael. The other chapter tells of the night journey of the 
Prophet, and this is known as siirat al-isra’ (of the night journey). After¬ 
wards he consulted Ka‘b as to the question of where the most suitable place 
to pray should be. Ka‘b told him that it should be behind the rock (that is, 
north of the sakhra) so that the prayer facing Mecca would at the same time 
face the rock as well. ‘Umar immediately rejected this suggestion, censur¬ 
ing Ka‘b on trying to imitate the Jews. ‘For I have noticed that you have 
already removed your shoes’, to which Ka‘b replied: ‘I wanted to stick to 
the ground with my feet.’ ‘Umar decided then to put up the prayer house 
in front of the rock, as the most proper place, ‘for we were not directed 
about the rock but about the ka'ba’. In what follows, Ka‘b explains to 
‘Umar that the entrance to the place and the evacuation of the refuse 
from the Temple Mount, is the fulfilment of the five-hundred-year-old 
prophecy which foretold of the rise ofjerusalem and the fall of Constanti¬ 
nople. According to Muhallabi’s version, written two generations after 
Tabari, it was the Jews (and not only Ka‘b) who came to ‘Umar and 
informed him of the actual site of the ‘rock’ because Constantine’s mother, 
Helena, turned it into the outlet for the town’s sewage and refuse. ‘Umar 
ordered the Muslims to clean up the place and thejews helped them to do 
so. 

A Muslim tradition also accredits to Muhammad a similar position of 
principle with regard to Jerusalem: ‘Some say that when he was in Mecca, 
he would pray in the direction ofjerusalem thus, that the ka'ba would be 
behind his back ... but others claim that he always [also] faced the ka'ba 
.. . and that when he was in Mecca he would face both qiblas [at the same 
time] for the ka'ba was between him and Jerusalem’. In Ibrahim b. ‘All 
al-Wasitfs words: ‘When the Prophet prayed while he was still in Mecca, 
he would face in the direction ofjerusalem in such a way that the ka'ba was 
in front of him as well.’ Theophanes, the Byzantine chronicler, confirms 
this in principle; on his arrival in Jerusalem, ‘Umar went into the question 
of where Solomon’s temple stood, and on that spot, built a prayer house 
for his abominations. 


66 



THE EPISODE OF THE TEMPLE MOUNT [SECS. 81-87] 


The subject of the Temple Mount being turned into a refuse dump is 
also mentioned in the commentary to Lam., i: 17 (‘Jerusalem is as a 
menstrous woman among them’) by the Karaite Salmon b. Yeruhim: 
‘That is, what Edom have done when they destroyed the second temple, 
for all the days of their stay here [in Jerusalem] they would discard 
thereupon [the site of the temple] the menstrual cloths and the refuse and 
all kinds of filth.’ The subject of the refuse disposed of on the site of the 
Temple Mount spoken of by Salmon b. Yeruhim is also mentioned in 
Musharraf. The Byzantine women would send their menstrual cloths to 
Jerusalem in order that they be thrown on the rock. 70 

70 The matter of changing the qibla appears in all the biographies of the Prophet. See for 
instance Ibn Sa‘d, 1(2), 3f; 111(2), 146f; Baladhuri, Ansab. 1, 271: Muhammad changed the 
qibla at noon, on Tuesday the 15th ofSha'ban of the 2nd year of the hijra (11 February AD 
624) but some say: sixteen months after the hijra. Samhudl, I, 240, 259; see the story of 
‘Umar and Ka‘b on the Temple Mount in Tabari, I, 2408fF, and a fuller version in Ibn 
‘Asakir, I, 557; WasitI, 45f; MuhallabI, 54; Himyarl, 149f; an amended version is found in 
the work of the Christian chronicler Sa‘id ibn Bitriq, II, 17f; the patriarch Sophronius 
suggests to ‘Umar to pray in the church of St Constantine but ‘Umar refuses in order not 
to give the Muslims a pretext and a precedent for confiscating it from the Christians; and it 
was the patriarch who suggested building the mosque on the rock itself, the place where 
Jacob spoke to God and called it the gate ofheaven (Gen., xxviii:17), and the Children of 
Israel called it the Holy of Holies and the centre of the earth; as to the matter of the refuse on 
the Temple Mount, it is perhaps also possible to relate to what was said in Bereshit Rabba 
xxxii (ed. Theodore and Albeck, 296), about Rabbi Jonathan whom a Samaritan told that 
it was better for him to pray with them in Shechem than in that Beyta qiqalta ; and it is 
possible that by qiqalta, he meant refuse: cf. Safrai, in: Peraqtm, 388f, and see his parallel 
versions. More detailed information is to be found in Jerome in his commentary on Is. 
lxiv:ll (Our holy and our beautiful house, where our fathers praised Thee, is burned up 
with fire: and all our pleasant things are laid waste): ‘et Templum in toto orbe celebratum 
in sterquilinium urbis novae quae a conditore appelabatur Elia (sit)’ (‘and the Temple 
which earned reverence throughout the world has become the refuse dump of the new city 
whose founder called it Aelia [that is, Hadrianus, Aelia Capitolina]’). See MPL, 24, 626; 
CCSL, A73, 740; cf. Prawer, Cathedra, 17(1980/81), 51. SaTd ibn Bitriq does not conceal 
the fact that the place was made a refuse dump by Helena and explains it in the desire of the 
Byzantines to fulfil the words of the New Testament on the destruction of the Temple. 
According to him, Sophronius was the one who helped ‘Umar clear away the refuse: and 
he continues: ‘and there were people who said: let us fix it (the prayer site) thus, that the 
rock should be the qibla, but ‘Umar refused and said: we shall fix the prayer site so that the 
rock will be behind it’. See also: Bakri, 827; MuqaddasI, Muthir (Le Strange), 297, quoting 
Shaddad b. Aws, one of the early Muslims who settled in Jerusalem (I shall speak of him 
below): the patriarch wished to show him the Church of the Holy Sepulchre which he 
claimed was the site where David prayed ( masjid Da’iid), but ‘Umar did not believe it. 
Afterward he claimed that the church ofZion was the site where David prayed, but ‘Umar 
still refused to believe him. The rock was covered with refuse which the Byzantines placed 
there to annoy the Jews. ‘Umar took offhis outer clothing and started to work on cleaning 
up the place together with all the Muslims; see similar versions in Musharraf, 21a. On the 
manner of Muhammad’s praying see Ibn Sayyid al-Nas, 'Uyiin, I, 236; see these traditions 
also in Ibn Qayyim al-Jawziyya, Badd-'i', IV, 168; on p. 171 he includes a tradition that 
Moses would also pray near the rock, facing‘the Holy House’ (i.e., Mecca), with the ka'ba 
as his qibla while the rock is in front of him. See also what he says regarding the Samaritans 
of his time (the first half of the fourteenth century), who claim that the Jews falsified the 


67 



THE CONQUEST 


[82] These descriptions of ‘Umar’s visit to the Temple Mount are 
related to a question I shall deal with below, and that is the sanctity of 
Jerusalem to Islam. At this point I shall concentrate on the presence of Ka‘b 
together with ‘Umar on the Temple Mount, according to certain tra¬ 
ditions, and also on the presence of thejews. These traditions, though they 
are legendary in the main, undoubtedly preserved the basic fact of express¬ 
ing the Jews’ involvement and interest, to the extent that it enabled them 
to reach some understanding with the Muslims with regard to everything 
concerning the situation ofjerusalem and the status of the Temple Mount. 
The Jewish point, that is, the connection between the Jews and figures 
from the past, such as Moses, David, and Solomon on the one hand, and 
the specifically Jewish character of the place on the other, was certainly 
present in the Muslims’ mind during the conquest, and thereafter also 
generated the traditions surveyed above. Thejews felt that the injunction 
against their entry into Jerusalem, not to speak of their settling there - 
which was maintained more or less consistently for slightly more than five 

true qibta, which is the mountain in Shechem. See further: Ibn Kathir, Bidaya, II, 96; VII, 
54ff, who speaks of ‘Umar’s and Ka‘b’s visit on the Temple Mount, and adds: ‘the 
throwing of the refuse on the Temple Mount was the Byzantine reprisal against thejews 
for throwing refuse on the site of the crucifixion, hence the place (of the Church of the 
Sepulchre) is called al-qumama (the refuse) and the church was also called thus. Abu 
‘Ubayd, Amwal , 154; Wasiti, 17; and following him, Ibn Fadlallah al-‘Umari (Cairo 1924), 
139: Ka‘b bribed a Jewish scholar to show him the site of the rock and afterwards prayed 
near bab al-asbat (‘gate of the tribes’ in the north-eastern corner of the city), for according to 
him. King Solomon faced the whole of the Temple Mount; see other parallels in the 
editor’s note 4, in Wasiti; cf. also Silafi, Fada’il, 41b-43b. In al-Subkl, Shift’ , 47, Ka‘b 
■ became a Muslim at that very time. Cf.: Futuh al-Sham (ascribed to WaqidI), I, 227f; Abu’ 
1-Fida’, Bulddn, 24T, ‘Ulayml, 226f; Abu’l-Fida’, Mukhtasar, I, 38, who quotes al-Muhal- 
labl (see above): Ka‘b turned to Islam during ‘Umar’s time and earned respect and 
attention from ‘Umar because of his knowledge of the matters of the isra’iliyyat (the 
traditions relating to thejews) but many of the traditions ascribed to him are inaccurate 
and full of sin; his full name was Ka‘b b. Mati‘, and his kunya was Abu Ishaq; he was from 
Himyar, from the clan of Dhu Ra'In, He had a stepson, the son of his wife, whose name 
was Tubay' b. ‘Amir al-Himyarf, who settled in Palestine and died in the year AH 101 (AD 
720) in Alexandria. On Ka‘b himself, it is told that he said that if it were not for his love for 
Palestine, he would have settled in Egypt. He studied with a certain Abu Muslim the 
Galilean, from the mountains of the Galilee, about whom it was said by some that he was a 
Jew and by others that he was a Christian monk. See DhahabI, Ta’rikh, III, 100, 220; IV, 
95; Tabari, Muntakhab, 116: Ka‘b died in the year AH 32 or 34 (AD 652/3 or 654/5). See 
Theophanes, 339; and copied from him, Constantine Porph. (Moravcsik), 82 (ch. xix); the 
Syriac chronicle (Baethgen), has a similar version among events of the year AH 16; also 
BarHebraeus (Bedjan), 103 (Budge), 96; Salmonb. Yeruhim, Commentary on Lamentations 
(Feuerstein), XLIV: see also what Sahl b. Masllah says in his introduction to his Book of 
Precepts, edited by Harkavy in MWJ, 6(1879), 181 (omitted from the version of the 
introduction in Ha-mells because of censureship, see below): ‘By God’s grace, He did not 
hand over His Temple to the uncircumcised [i. e., the Christians], in order not to have idols 
put in them, so thejews should not be ashamed. Since it is not right to bow before a site 
where foreign gods [version: idols] are placed’. See some of the traditions about ‘Umar’s 
uncovering of the rock, on Ka‘b, etc., in Vogt, Biblica, 55(1974), 57f. Musharraf, fol. 21a; 
cf. Busse, JSAI, 5(1984), 89. 


68 



THE EPISODE OF THE TEMPLE MOUNT [SECS. 81-87) 


hundred years (AD 135-638) - had come to an end. That embargo was 
certainly close to the heart of the Christians for it suited their views of the 
waning ofjudaism and its debasement. For the Fathers of the Church, the 
separation of the Jews from Jerusalem and the obliteration of any remnant 
of their earthly temple became an integral part of their creed’s body of law. 
The most genuine expression of this viewpoint was that of Jerome, who 
wrote towards the end of the fourth century, in a manner reflecting the 
actual situation as well as the satisfaction and exultation at the disappear¬ 
ance of the Jews, who were considered the enemies of Christianity. This 
is included in his commentary on Zeph., i: 15 (‘That day is a day of wrath, 
a day of trouble and distress, a day of wasteness and desolation, a day of 
darkness and gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darknesss’): 

Until this very day those hypocritical tenants ( coloni) are forbidden to come to 
Jerusalem, because of the murder of the prophets ( servorum ), and the last of them - 
the Son of God; unless [they come] to weep, for then they are given permission to 
lament over the ruins of the city in exchange for a payment. Just as they purchased 
the blood of the Messiah, now they are purchasing their own tears; therefore even 
the lamentation is not given them for naught. On the day that Jerusalem was taken 
and destroyed by the Romans, one could see this people, women dressed in rags 
and the old bearing their tatters and their years, gather for a time of mourning, 
proving by their bodies and their dress the meaning of the wrath of the Lord. Then 
a rabble of the wretched gathers, and while the wood of the crucifix of the Lord 
shines and glows and celebrates His resurrection, and the symbol of the cross is 
topmost on the Mount of Olives, the children of this wretched nation are bemoan¬ 
ing the.destruction of their temple, but are not worthy of compassion. 71 

[83] Karaite commentators of the tenth century mention in a number of 
instances the drastic change effected by the Muslims in their capture of 
Jerusalem. Thus Daniel al-Qumisi writes at the end of the ninth century in 
his commentary on the Book of Daniel, xi:32: ‘For before he came [the 
king of Ishmael, who defeated the king of the south, that is the Byzantine 
emperor] they could not come to Jerusalem; and they would come from 
the four corners of the earth to Tiberias and Gaza to see the temple; but 
now with his coming he brought them tojerusalem and gave them a place 
and many of Israel settled there; and afterwards Israel come from the four 
corners of the earth to Jerusalem to preach and to pray. .. ’ In this same 
strain, Sahl b. Masllah writes in the introduction to his Book of 
Commandments: 

.. . and after they left the place, it was more than five-hundred years in ruins, 

71 See MPL, 25, 1418f; quoted also in Schiirer, I, 699, 703f. Cf. what the pilgrim of Bordeaux 
(333) has to say about the pierced stone on the Temple Mount, which the Jews visit every 
year, anoint it (with oil) and howl and wail and tear their clothing: Tobler et Molinier, I, 
17: on the perforation in the sakhra see WasitI, 75, and the corresponding references in 
editor’s note 3; on the ban on Jews residing in Jerusalem, see also SaTd ibn Bitriq, I, 133; 
according to whom the ban was imposed by Constantine. 


69 



THE CONQUEST 


inhabited by hyenas, and not one of Israel could come. There werejews from the 
east who came to the city of Maaziah [Tiberias] to pray there. From the west they 
would come to the city of Gaza. From the land of the south they would come to the 
city of Zoar. And in the days of the little horn, God opened the gates of his 
compassion to His people and brought them to His Holy City and they settled 
there and they built places to read and to interpret and to pray at all times and to 
keep watchers therein at night... 

Similarly, his contemporary Salmon ben Yeruhim, in his Arabic com¬ 
mentary to Ps. xxx: wrote ‘... as we know, the temple remained in the 
hands of the Romans for more than 500 years and they did not succeed in 
enteringjerusalem; and anyone who did and was recognised [as ajew] was 
put to death. But when the Romans left it, by the mercy of the God of 
Israel, and the kingdom of Ishmael was victorious, Israel was permitted to 
come and to live... ’ 72 

[84] Until now we have seen that the Karaite commentators confirm 
what we know from the Christian sources, that it was forbidden tojews to 
enter Jerusalem, and they point out that the Muslims changed this situ¬ 
ation when they captured the city. The author of the ‘Mysteries of Rabbi 
Shimon Bar Yohai’ also writes: ‘The second king who will rise from 
Ishmael [that is to say, ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab] will be a lover of Israel and 
will repair their cracks and the cracks of the temple’. AJewish chronicle, a 
fragment of which is preserved in the Cairo Geniza, also confirms that it 
was ‘Umar who gave permission to the Jews to settle in Jerusalem and on 
the basis of his decision seventy Jewish families came from Tiberias and 
settled there. This was preceded by bargaining between the Jews and the 

72 Daniel a!-Qumisi, see TS 10 C 2 (No. 2), f. lv (see above, chapter 1, n, 12). See the 
introduction by Sahl b. Maslxabi to the Book of Precepts edited by Harkavy in Ha-milis, 
1879, p. 640 (= Me’assefNiddahim No. 13) and see the reprint of that series, 199. ‘Little 
horn’ means the kingdom of Islam (see above, note 67). Harkavy edited the introduction 
on the basis of manuscripts which he found in the Firkovitch collection and pointed out in 
the above version some variae lectiones: Holy boundary (instead of: Holy city); they built 
houses (instead of: they built places; places as parallel to the Arabic word mawacli' which 
means places, but also dwelling places). On the particular meaning of‘night watchers’ see: 
Wieder, Judean Scrolls, 96-103, see especially his comments on the three foundations: 
Miqrd, Derdshd (= to interpret!), Tejilld, ibid., 103. Salmon b. Yeruhim: see the manuscript 
from the Firkovitch collection, II, No. 1345, edited by Neubauer, Aus der Petersburger 
Bibliothek, VII, 109, and following him, Mann, Jews, I, 46, n. 1, and his corrected reading 
in Texts, II, 18. Writing about the period in which the Byzantines ruled and the ban on 
Jews to reside in Jerusalem Salmon b. Yeruhim uses the expression t’J i ja. The Arabic 
word nayyif means an addition to round numbers, and this can generally be any number 
from three to nine. The historical number is 638 (the Muslim conquest), minus 135 (the 
suppressing of the Bar-Kokhba revolt), equals 503; cf. Sahl b. Masliah: ‘more than five 
hundred’ (this seems to be a translation from the Arabic, which was in the original as in 
Salmon). This expression i '11 jr shortened to Si t-h . is evidently what produced the 
information of the alleged 550 years of Byzantine rule, mentioned in some piyyutim, 
including that of Samuel ‘the third’ b. Hosha’na, and this, it seems, is the solution to this 
problem, which was discussed by Fleischer, Zion, 36(1971), 110. 


70 



THE EPISODE OF THE TEMPLE MOUNT [SECS. 81-87] 

patriarch, in the presence of the caliph; the Jews requested residence 
permits for Jerusalem for two hundred families while the patriarch was 
only ready to agree to fifty, until ‘Umar decided on the number he thought 
fitting. Also in a letter from the yeshiva ofjerusalem to the communities in 
the diaspora [evidently those in Egypt], written in the middle of the 
eleventh century, we find the passage: ‘And from our God there befell His 
mercy upon us before the kingdom of Ishmael; at the time when their 
power expanded and they captured the Holy Land from the hands of 
Edom, and came to Jerusalem, there were people from the Children of 
Israel with them; they showed them the spot of the temple and they settled 
with them until this very day... ’ 73 

[85] In these latter sources, we not only find the confirmation of the 
information in the Karaite commentaries with regard to the renewed 
settlement of Jews in Jerusalem shortly after the conquest, but also an 
interesting point found also in the Muslim traditions on the participation 
of the Jews in disposing of the refuse on the Temple Mount and the 
appointment of a number ofjews to be responsible for its cleanliness. The 
fragment of the letter quoted above and the fragment of the Jewish 
chronicle also confirm the episode of thejews assisting in uncovering the 
rock. It is worth adding the words of the Jewish chronicle on how the 
cleaning of the Temple Mount proceeded: ‘Taking part were all the 
Muslims in the city and in the district and participating with them were a 
group ofjews; afterwards they were ordered to evacuate the rubbish from 
the sanctuary and to clean it; and ‘Umar watched them all the time. 
Whenever a remnant was revealed, he would ask the elders of the Jews 
about the rock, namely the even shetiyya (‘the foundation stone’), and one 
of the sages would mark out the boundaries of the place, until it was 
uncovered.. . ’ Indeed these statements correspond to what was said in the 
Muslim chronicles, in which that ‘one of the sages’ was Ka‘b al-Ahbar, as 
we have seen above. In addition, the letter from the yeshiva mentions 
afterwards that those Jews who came to Jerusalem immediately after the 
Muslim conquest ‘took a pledge upon themselves’, that is, they promised 
to be responsible for the cleanliness: ‘to clear away its refuse and to clean its 
drains’.. ’ 74 


73 Jellinek, Bet ha-midrash. III, 79; cf. ‘the prayer of Rabbi Shimon Bar Yohai’, ibid., IV, 120, 
and see 1, a, lines 11-19; b, lines 1-10, 16-17; 420, III, lines 10-13. 

74 See 1, a, lines 1-9; naturally it is possible that the Jewish chronicle and the letter from the 
yeshiva drew on what was said in the Muslim sources, just as it is possible that the Muslim 
tradition was influenced by what was common knowledge among the Jews. See in the 
letter from the yeshiva, 420, III, line 34. One cannot conclude from these sources that there 
were Jews in the ranks of the Muslim army, as does Dinur, Isra’el ba-gola, I (1), 22, n. 22, to 
which he has already been replied by Assaf, Meqorot, 17; also Crone and Cook, 156, n. 29, 
exaggerate in seeing here proof of general Muslim-Jewish collaboration. 


71 



THE CONQUEST 


[86] This matter of the responsibility for cleanliness is confined in the 
Muslim sources to the area of the Temple Mount. According to these 
sources, the Mosque al-Aqsa had ten, and later twenty Jewish servants, 
who were exempt from paying the poll-tax; they were in charge of the 
sanitation until the Caliph ‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘Aziz (717—720) replaced 
them with slaves from the Muslim treasury ( khums ). Salmon ben Yeruhim 
evidently meant exactly the same thing when he wrote that at the time of 
the renewed settlement in Jerusalem, the Jews were allotted ‘buildings in 
God’s House’, and they even prayed there during this period. Afterwards, 
however, there were complaints against them to the ‘King of Ishmael’ for 
their vile actions, and he ordered them to be evicted from there and placed 
near one of the gates of the Temple Mount; elsewhere he complains that 
the Muslims placed servants in the house of God who were of foreign 
nations. 75 

[87] One must add Theophanes’ story to the information I have given, 
with regard to the renewal ofjewish presence injerusalem during ‘Umar’s 
time, after an absence of more than 500 years. According to Theophanes, 
the shrine ( naos) which ‘Umar began to build in Jerusalem would con¬ 
stantly collapse. They could not discover the reason for this until ‘Umar 
asked the Jews and they told him that his temple was only collapsing due to 
the cross that was standing opposite the temple, on the Mount of Olives. 
Actually after the cross was removed, the shrine no longer caved in. For 
the same reason, he adds, the enemies of the Messiah have removed many 
crosses. Theophanes was one of the sworn enemies of the Iconoclasts. His 
story is intended to prove the power of the cross, though in a roundabout 
manner we also learn that there were Jews in Jerusalem at that time. 
According to him, these miraculous events occurred during the reign of 
Constantine II, who ruled after Heraclius for only a few months in 641. 

As I have already mentioned above, there is a clear contradiction be¬ 
tween the information that I have summarised until now with regard to 
the renewed settlement ofjews injerusalem shortly after the conquest, at 

75 See WasitI, 43f; MuhallabI, 54; see Musharraf, 24b, who tells that the Dome of the Rock 
had 300 servants who were bought (by ‘Abd al-Malik) from the khums of the treasury. 
Whenever one of them died they would replace him. There were also ten Jewish servants 
who were exempt from poll-tax, and when their offspring increased, their number grew 
to twenty, and they would clean up after the people who came to visit there when the 
caravans came, in winter and summer. They would also clean the pool of purification 
outside. Further on, he tells that the Jews were also taking care of the glass panes of the 
lanterns and the other glass objects, of the candlewicks, etc. In continuation, he again tells 
(fol. 88b) that the Jews were in charge of lighting the candles on the Temple Mount. See 
also ‘Ulayml, 250. According to Himyari, 151, anbat (farmers, villagers) from Palestine 
were given the task of cleaning the T emple Mount. Muqaddasi, AqalTm, 171, explains that 
slaves of the treasury ( akhmas) had been on the Temple Mount from the time of‘Abd 
al-Malik. See also Maqdisi, Muthir (Le Strange), 303ff; Abu ‘Ubayd, Atnwal, 154; Salmon 
b. Yeruhim, in Mann, Texts, II, 18; his commentary on Lamentations, MS Paris 295, 55b. 


72 



THE EPISODE OF THE TEMPLE MOUNT [SECS. 81-87] 


any rate, during the days of ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab, and the wording of 
‘Umar’s treaty with the Christian population of Jerusalem, in which it is 
specifically stated that Jews are not permitted to settle in Jerusalem. We 
have seen how Goitein, in his attempt to overcome this contradiction, 
expressed doubt as to the authenticity of the treaty’s version as transmitted 
by Sayf ibn ‘Umar. But there seems to be little justification for this very 
stringent attitude towards a source that has been preserved for more than a 
thousand years. ‘Umar’s guiding line appears to have been to adopt the 
most decent attitude possible towards the local population and enable it to 
continue to pursue its customary mode of life and to earn its living in its 
own fashion and from then on, also to nourish the Arab tribes. It was then 
natural that, at a time when he wished to persuadejerusalem to surrender, 
he would submit to the demands of the Christian inhabitants of the city to 
maintain the former legal status with regard to the Jews. However, 
perhaps three years later (if we accept the presence of the Jews according to 
Theophanes, in 641), ‘Umar acknowledged the importance of thejews in 
Palestine, comprising still a sizable population and economically the most 
important, and their request to settle again injerusalem was granted. In his 
own fashion, he secured the Christians’ agreement to change that situ¬ 
ation, despite the treaty. Here we must attach considerable importance to 
the information that has been preserved in thejewish chronicle, according 
to which ‘Umar decided on this new step only after he consulted the 
opinion of the patriarch as to the number ofjews that should be permitted 
to reside injerusalem. In the end, his decision was something of a compro¬ 
mise between the opinions of both sides. From the point of view of the 
Muslims’ specific interest, he certainly did not see any fundamental reason 
to deny the Jews’ request in this matter. And why was he obliged to give 
preference to the Christians with regard to permission to live injerusalem 
and to carry out their religious duties and precepts there? On the contrary, 
he was certainly aware that it would be more astute to prevent the 
Christians from being the sole non-Muslims living in this city, whose 
significance was very obvious to him. For the Jews’ claim to their prior 
historical connection with the holy places was in conformity with Muslim 
tradition; to them the city was that of the ancient Children of Israel, of 
David and of Solomon, their kings and prophets. The presence of thejews 
in the city would serve to weaken the validity of the exclusive hold which 
the Christians had achieved in the course of the three hundred years in 
which they ruled the Holy City. As we shall see further on, the Muslims, 
at the time, still did not attribute any sanctity to the city from their own 
standpoint, and at any rate, did not see it as a centre of Muslim ritual, and 
all they wanted was to lay the foundations of their rule and strengthen it, in 
Palestine generally and injerusalem in particular. For this purpose, it was 


73 



THE CONQUEST 


worthwhile to draw the Jews closer, to reduce the Christians’ exclusive 
tighthold on the city, and to lessen the strength of their claims to historical 
rights in it, for the Christians saw the ousting of thejews from Jerusalem 
as a victory and an additional justification for their creed. The treaty with 
the Christians and the permission granted tojews to reside injerusalem are 
not then historically opposed, nor do they exclude one another, in spite of 
some time difference between them; and both should be considered his¬ 
torical facts . 76 

76 Theophanes, 342; to be more precise, it was Constantine IH (‘the Second’ was generally 
applied to the son of Constantine the Great); see Schwabe, Zion ( ha-me'assef) (1926/7), 
102f, and ibid, also a Hebrew translation of the passage. See the story, copied from 
Theophanes, in Michael the Syrian, book 9, ch. 8 (Chabot, II, 431); cf. Vasiliev, History, 
193; Ostrogorsky, History, 130. The passage belongs to events which Theophanes de¬ 
scribes under the year 6135 of the creation. Theophanes used the era of Panodoros, an 
Egyptian monk, who counts from the creation to the death of the archbishop Theodoros 
(AD 412) i.e., 5904 years.His era starts on 29 August 5493 BC; however Theophanes 
accepted the correction of Anianus, according to whom the era started on 25 March, 5493 
BC; see on Theophanes’ era: Realencyclopaedie fiir protestantische Theologie and Kirche, XXI, 
923f; Dolger, BZ, 31(1931): 350; Breyer, Bilderstreit', 17; an interesting parallel to Theo¬ 
phanes' story is to be found in the Karaite Sahl b. Masllah’s introduction to his Book of 
Precepts (see Harkavy, Me’assef, 199): ‘and we heard that in the days of Hadrian the 
wicked, God made a sign when he was building the temple to place an image in the temple, 
and the building fell. And they returned and built it a second time and when they brought 
the image into the building, it fell again. And they built it a third time and it fell after its 
completion; a reminder of the words: they shall build but I will throw down (Mai., i:4); 
and so he abandoned it and took Zion and the house of the forest of Lebanon' (IKi., vii:2; 
2Chr., ix:16, 20. The house of the forest ofLebanon was the house of King Solomon; with 
these words he meant two centres of Christianity injerusalem: the area of the Church of 
the Holy Sepulchre and Zion, which is the Nea; for it is not likely that he could 
discriminate between pagan Rome and Christianity). ‘And he built altars within and put 
up images and their abominations just as one did in the generation of Jeremiah in the 
temple.. .’ (this motif, of Jews by whose initiative Christian ritual objects are destroyed, 
repeats itself in Theophanes again elsewhere, 401f: ajew ofLaodicea in Phoenicia came to 
Caliph Yazid and promised him forty years rule if he would rid the churches of the images. 
But with the help of Jesus and that of the Mother of Christ, Yazid died in that same year 
[723; see more of this below, sec. 97]). 


74 



2 

Islam strikes roots 


Events in Palestine to the end of Umayyad rule 

In the days of Mu'awiya 

[88] We have little knowledge of what went on in Palestine during the rule 
of the ‘rightly guided’ caliphs or ‘al-Rashidun’: Abu Bakr, ‘Umar ibn 
al-Khattab (killed in 644), ‘Uthman ibn ‘Affan (killed in 656), and ‘All ibn 
Abi Talib (killed in 661). During ‘Uthman’s rule, serious schisms 
appeared in the Muslim camp, and open rivalry between the Hashimids 
from which Muhammad stemmed, and who were centred round ‘All ibn 
Abi Talib, and the Meccan aristocracy, which centred round the 
Umayyads. A rebellion developed which led to the assassination on 17 
June 656, of the caliph ‘Uthman, who supported the Umayyads. ‘All was 
declared caliph and was immediately forced to fight those who conspired 
against him. Opposition to ‘All was led by two veterans and leaders of 
Islam, Talha and Zubayr, together with ‘A’isha, the beloved wife of 
Muhammad and daughter of Abu Bakr. ‘All’s victory over the rebels at 
the ‘Battle of the Camel’ near Basra in Iraq on 9 December 656 did not 
restore stability to his reign. Mu'awiya ibn Abi Sufyan of the Umayyads, 
who as we have seen above was appointed military commander in al- 
Sham and governor of the area on behalf of the caliph ‘Umar (after the 
plague of Emmaus), refused to recognise the new caliph or to pledge 
loyalty to him. Thus Palestine was in fact under the governorship of the 
person who was considered the head of the uprising - Mu'awiya. Along¬ 
side him stood ‘Amr ibn al-‘As, who had been governor of Egypt and had 
been dismissed by ‘Uthman. During the rebellion against ‘Uthman, with 
the help of tribes in Egypt, ‘Amr found refuge in Palestine, in the neigh¬ 
bourhood of Sab' (which is Beersheba), on ‘Amr’s estate in ‘Ajlan. He and 
Mu‘awiya met in Jerusalem and formed an alliance, and indeed ‘Amr 
fought alongside Mu'awiya in the battle of Siffin at the end of July 657. It 
was his idea to hold leaves of the Koran on the lances, an act which 
convinced ‘All’s followers, who were close to victory, to agree to an 
armistice and arbitration. This took place at Adhruh in Trans-Jordan (in 
the neighbourhood of Petra). ‘Amr represented Mu'awiya and actually 


75 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


managed to get rid of‘All as caliph. Afterwards, ‘Amr seized Egypt while 
the war between Mu'awiya and ‘All resumed; only after another armistice 
did the war of the tribes come to an end with an attack on ‘All’s life, and his 
death on 25 January 661 from the wounds inflicted during the attack. Half 
a year earlier, Mu'awiya had been proclaimed caliph by his followers in 
Jerusalem. He was given complete support by the tribes in Palestine, both 
by the Urdunn tribes under the command of Sufyan b. ‘Amr al-A‘war 
al-Sulami and by the tribes of jund Filastin headed by Maslama b. 
Mukhlid. 

The sources enumerate the tribes in Palestine and their commanders: 
leading the infantry of jund al-Urdunn was ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Qays 
al-Qayni, and over the people of jund Filastln was al-Harith b. Khalid 
al-Azdi. The Banu Quada'a, who lived in Urdunn, also supported Mu'a¬ 
wiya and were headed by Hubaysh b. Dalaja (or Dulja) al-Qayni; the Banu 
Kinana of Filastin were headed by Shurayk al-Kinani; the Madhkhij tribe 
of Urdunn was headed by al-Mukhariq b. al-Harith al-Zubaydi; the tribes 
of Lakhm and Judham, then in Filastin, were led by Natil b. Qays 
al-Judhami; the Banu Hamadan of Urdunn were led by Hamza b. Malik 
al-Hamadani (Tabari and Baladhuri report him as Hassan b. Malik b. 
Bahdal), and the tribe of Ghassan from Urdunn was led by Yazid b. 
al-Harith b. Abi’ 1-Nams. 

The father of Sufyan (the head of the Urdunn tribes), ‘Amr b. Sufyan, 
that is Abu’l-A'war al-Sulami (we have seen above that he participated in 
the battles of conquest in Palestine), was the one who accepted the surren¬ 
der of Tiberias and was afterwards in charge of the army in Urdunn, an 
appointment he received from the caliph ‘Uthman. According to the 
chronicle of Michael the Syrian, it was he who introduced the systematic 
payment of taxes (in the year 669 or 674; it seems that the former is 
probably correct) imposed on the Christian villages. According to 
Ya‘qubl, it was the father who was the commander during Mu'awiya’s 
war against ‘All, so it appears that both father and son functioned on behalf 
of Mu'awiya during this period. 1 

[89] Of those mentioned above, the two outstanding figures among the 

1 The Mu'awiya- 1 Amr pact in Jerusalem: Ibn Sa‘d, 1V{2), 2f; Dhahabi, Siyar, III, 94f; tribes 
of Palestine: Nasr b. Muzahim, 206f, 226; Dinawari, 172 (who has Maslama b. Khalid 
instead of b. Mukhlid); Khalifa ibn Khayyat, I, 222 (who has: Shurayt al-Kinani, instead of 
Shurayk; al-Harith b. ‘Abd, instead of b. Khalid. We have confirmation that he was indeed 
called al-IJarith b. ‘Abd in the papyri of Nessana, for in some of them he is mentioned 
between October 674 and February 677; see Nessana, 33); Ibn ‘Asakir, III, 439, points out 
that some say b. Khalid and some say b. ‘Abd. On p. 451 he calls him: al-Harith b. 
‘Abdallah. On Abu’l-A‘war see: Tabari, Ta'rikh, I, 2159, 2398, 3057f; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, 
III, 186; Michael the Syrian, II, 450, and in the Syriac source: 433 (the translation refers to 
435 by mistake). Cf. Lammens, Mo'awia, 48ff, who also has details on the tribe of 
Abu’l-A‘war, Sulaym, a large and rich tribe based in the region of the holy cities in Hijaz, 


76 



EVENTS TO THE END OF UMAYYAD RULE [SECS. 88-101] 


leaders who supported Mu'awiya in Palestine were Hubaysh b. Dulja of 
the Quda‘a tribe and Natil b. Qays, leader ofJudham. Considering the 
relatively important place these figures occupy in the sources one can 
conclude that both tribes, the Quda'a and the Judham, held central pos¬ 
itions in the Palestinian arena. Hubaysh b. Dulja played a leading role 
later, as well, in command of the army which Caliph Marwan sent against 
the rebels led by ‘Abdallah ibn Zubayr in the year 684. As to Natil b. Qays, 
leader of the Banu Judham, he was evidently omnipotent in Palestine and 
dominated its financial administration. He afterwards betrayed the 
Umayyads and went over to ‘Abdallah b. Zubayr, causing a split in the 
tribe, as we shall see. He was killed in the year 66 of the hijra, which is the 
year AD 685/6. 2 

[90] While the tribes in Palestine were loyal to Mu'awiya, there was 
danger looming from the south as Malik b. al-Harith, also called al- 
Ashtar, one of the most fanatical of ‘All’s supporters, was en route to 
Egypt. The chances that al-Ashtar would dominate that country were 
very likely. Thus Mu'awiya bribed the dihqan (a Persian term, which is 
used in Arab sources to mean ‘owner of the place’, that is, the local leader) 
of al-‘Arish, promising him exemption from taxes for a period of twenty 
years. The dihqan then poisoned al-Ashtar, who was, as I have said, on his 
way to Egypt. 3 

[91] The extent to which the tribes in Palestine were deeply involved in 
the struggle between ‘All and Mu'awiya can be perceived from the story 
told by al-Ash‘ath (who is Abu Muhammad Ma'dikarib b. Qays), head of 
the Banu Kinda, one of the moderate tribes among ‘All’s followers, 
concerning the outcome of the battle of Siffin: ‘indeed I saw the tents and 
the courtyards in Filastln; not a tent nor courtyard nor building nor camp 
of tents but had tied to them a man’s hand or leg’ (in place of pegs). 4 

Mecca and Medina. Ya'qubi, Ta’rikh, II, 226; Hassan b. Malik: Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 468; 
Baladhuri, Ansab, V, 125. In the same war, Mu‘awiya promised Ayman b. Khuraym, the 
leader of the Banu Asad, that he will appoint him governor of jund Filastln, if he would 
come over to his side together with his tribe and fight ‘All; but Ayman refused. It is said that 
Ayman was a poet and also an outstanding war-lord. See Ibn Sa‘d, VI, 24f; Ibn Abfl- 
Hadld, I, 435. 

2 On Hubaysh b. Dulja: Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 579; Ibn Habib, Muhabbar, 481; according to 
Ya'qubi, Ta’rikh, II, 298f, he took part afterwards in the famous battle at Medina, the battle 
of the Harra, in 682, at the head of 1000 fighters. See about him also in Ibn Qutayba, 
Ma'arif 416; Khalifa ibn Khayyat, I, 329; Ibn ‘Asakir, IV, 40ff; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, IV, 
190f; Natil b. Qays, Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 468; Mas'udI Tanbih, 307; idem, Muriij, V, 225: 
Natil b. Qays was killed in Palestine in the battle of Ijnadayn, between the caliph’s army 
and the tribes loyal to ‘Abdallah ibn Zubayr. See also Ya'qubi, Ta’rikh, II, 304£f, 321; 
Khalifa ibn Khayyat, I, 332; Ibn Hazm, Jamhara, 420f; IsbahanI, Aghani, XVII, 111; Sibt ibn 
al-jawzl, Kanz, 5: Natil (see versions: Na’il, Nabil) ruled in Filastln, in the coastal area and 
in Jerusalem; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, IV, 145. 

3 Mas'udI, Muriij, IV, 422; cf. Wustenfeld, Statthalter, I, 24. 

4 Nasr b. Muzahim, 339. 


77 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


[92] The followers of Mu'awiya pronounced him caliph in Jerusalem in 
the year AH 40, or AD 661, according to the Arab sources. A Syriac source 
states that Mu'awiya then came to the Church of the Golgotha in Jerusa¬ 
lem, and also visited Mary’s grave in Gethsemane. According to this 
source, the event occurred during Safar-Rabl‘ I of the year AH 40, that is 
July AD 660, while ‘All was still alive; whereas according to the Arab 
sources, it occurred after his assassination. It appears that Mu'awiya 
visited Palestine quite often because its tribes were a reliable buttress to his 
rule. He chose to settle in al-Sinnabra (evidently south of the Sea of 
Galilee, near the mouth of the Jordan — Khirbat al-Karak). Later caliphs 
would also come there. Following the period of severe warfare which had 
raged within the Muslim camp, it seems that Palestine enjoyed a period of 
comparative serenity in Mu'awiya’s time. One indication of this may be 
the relatively high taxes which were collected during those days of the two 
junds of Palestine: in Filastln, 450,000 dinars were collected and in Ur- 
dunn, 180,000 dinars were collected annually. Mu'awiya and his son 
Yazid evidently visitedjerusalem frequently. Three Iraqis made attempts 
on Mu'awiya’s life in the mosque in Jerusalem but it is not known exactly 
when. 

Yazid, Mu'awiya’s son and heir to the caliphate, stayed in Jerusalem at 
the time of his father’s death, in April 680. Two or three years later, it is 
stated that he was staying in Tiberias. This was at the height of a bitter 
struggle which he had to conduct against his enemies, for the tribes in the 
north of Palestine (Urdunn) were then his loyal supporters. 5 


The war of the Zubayrids 

[93] One can undoubtedly speak of a special connection which both 
Mu'awiya and his son Yazid, who reigned after him, enjoyed with the 

5 Tabari, Ta’rTkh, II, 4; Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, VIII, 16; Chronicon Maron., 71: this source tells 
that while the Muslims were gathering in Jerusalem to pronounce Mu'awiya caliph, there 
was a severe earthquake during which Jericho and a large number of churches were 
destroyed, among them the church of St John the Baptist on the Jordan. Much harm was 
also suffered by the monastery of St Euthymius. According to Syriac sources, the earth¬ 
quake occurred on 9 June 659; according to Theophanes, 347: in the month of Daisios in the 
year 6150, in the second indiction, in the 17th year ofConstans. Before that, on page 346, it 
is mentioned that ‘Uthman was murdered in the 14th year ofConstans, which is AM 6147. 
‘Uthman was assassinated in AD 656; hence AM 6150 here is actually AD 659 while 
Mu'awiya was pronounced caliph in 661. Cf. also Nau, ROC, 4(1899), 324; Noldeke, 
ZDMG, 29(1875), 85; see ibid. , p. 91 the text, and p. 95 the translation. Noldeke points out 
there the difference in times between the Arab sources and the Syriac one. Al-Sinnabra, see 
Yaqut, Buldan, III, 419: it is situated opposite the Afeq pass (‘aqabat Afiq) three miles from 
Tiberias. Al-Sinnabra is Sennabris in Greek sources, Sinnabri in the Talmudic sources. See 
Lammens, Mo'awia, 380; Mayer, Eretz-Israel, 1:169, 1950/1: Bar-Adon, Eretz-Israel, 4:50, 
1955/6. The taxes: Ya'qubi, Ta’rikh, II, 288; the attempted murder in Jerusalem, see 
Dhahabi, Siyar, III, 94f; Yazid in Jerusalem: Damlri, Hayawan, I, 105; cf. QaramanI, I, 119. 


7« 



EVENTS TO THE END OF UMAYYAD RULE [SECS. 88-101] 

tribes of Palestine. They were the major political and military support of 
the Damascene ruler, and this was certainly reflected in the caliph’s atti¬ 
tude towards them, expressed in the form of subsidies and regular allow¬ 
ances. The tribes expressed their loyalty through the participation of 5,000 
fighters of the BanuJudham, under the command ofRawh b. Zinba‘, and 
of 1,000 fighters from the Banu Kinana, under the command of Hubaysh 
ibn Dulja in the battle of the Harra, which was the slaughter of the 
regime’s opponents in 682 in Medina. The almost continuous struggle for 
power within the caliphate left its mark on the tribes in Palestine and 
atrocious inter-tribal battles frequently took place on its soil. In 680-692 
the tribes of Palestine actively participated in the war between the two 
brothers, ‘Abdallah and Mus'ab, the sons ofal-Zubayr (al-Zubayr was the 
Prophet’s cousin and one ofhis closest aides) and the Umayyads. The two 
brothers succeeded in capturing Hijaz and also parts of Iraq. 

These events developed rapidly immediately after the assassination of 
Husayn, the son of ‘All ibn Abi Talib, in Karbala’ on 10 October 680. 
‘Abdallah ibn al-Zubayr then placed himself at the head of the opposition 
to the Umayyads, and started preaching against them from his base in 
Mecca. After the submission of Medina, Mecca became the centre of 
opposition to the reigning caliph and the siege which Yazld’s army im¬ 
posed on Mecca almost succeeded in obtaining its surrender, when the 
news of Yazld’s death in November 683 arrived. From that point 
onwards, ‘Abdallah ibn al-Zubayr met with increasing success and he 
enjoyed the support of important sectors of the Muslim world, including 
Egypt. The Palestinian tribes played a fateful role in the course of events 
within this context. The Banu Hamadan, led by Hassan b. Malik b. 
Bahdal, succeeded in organising a strong alliance of tribes, which called 
themselves ‘southerners’ or Banu Kalb; and these stood staunchly by the 
Umayyads and were the major factor in their victory over ibn al-Zubayr’s 
‘Syrian’ champion, al-Dahhakb. Qays al-Fihri, head of the rival alliance of 
the ‘northerners’, or Banu Qays. Al-Fihri had been appointed governor of 
Damascus on ibn al-Zubayr’s behalf. This victory was achieved by the 
‘southerners’ after a hard and gory battle in Marj Rahit, east of Damascus, 
in July 684. 

In these events, the Banu Judham fulfilled an important role. At that 
time, they moved fromjund Urdunn tojund Filastin, that is, they moved 
southward, under the leadership ofRawh b. Zinba 1 , and replaced the Banu 
Hamadan, who seem to have weakened somewhat and moved to Urdunn 
in place of the Judham, and who were led by Hassan (or Hamza) b. Malik 

Tiberias: Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 492. See in Lammens, Yaztd , 107, n. 2, references to more 
sources, some of which claim that at the time ofhis father’s death, he was in Hims or 
elsewhere. 


79 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


b. Bahdal. Hassan was the uncle of the new caliph Yazld (his mother’s 
brother). Both tribes, together with their leaders, remained faithful to the 
Umayyads and pledged their loyalty to Yazid, son of Mu’awiya, on the 
death of his father. But within the Banu Judham a radical change was 
taking place under the leadership of Natil b. Qays; he had snatched 
command of the tribe and went over to the side of ‘Abdallah ibn al- 
Zubayr, while Hassan b. Malik, head of the Urdunn tribes, remained loyal 
to Yazid although the tribes there had stringent complaints against Yazid’s 
two sons, ‘Abdallah and Khalid, who had been appointed by him to take 
charge of Urdunn. Hence a rupture was created between the tribes of the 
two junds - Urdunn and Filastin. The tribes of jund Filastin sided, 
together with the Banu Judham led by Natil b. Qays, with ‘Abdallah ibn 
al-Zubayr. When in the course of the struggle the scales began to come 
down in favour of the Umayyads, in the days of the caliph Marwan, Natil 
b. Qays (the source refers to him as sahib Filastln, the chief of Filastin), fled 
from Palestine to Ibn al-Zubayr in Mecca. Another point of dissension 
arose with the death of Mu'awiya II, son of Yazid, who was caliph from 
November 683 until June 684. The tribes of Palestine, especially in Ur¬ 
dunn, under the leadership of Hassan b. Malik, favoured the appointment 
of Khalid b. Yazid in opposition to Marwan b. al-Hakam, who was 
pronounced caliph after Mu'awiya II. When Khalid’s mother (the widow 
of Yazid and later married to Marwan) murdered Marwan, the tribes 
renewed their support of Khalid, but to no avail, and ‘Abd al-Malik b. 
Marwan became caliph in April 685. At that time, however, the sons of 
al-Zubayr were still a serious threat to the Umayyads and although most 
of the tribes ofal-Sham supported the Umayyads, the tribes of Filastin, led 
by Natil b. Qays, were a worrying exception. At this point, ‘Abd al-Malik 
enjoyed the help ofRawh b. Zinba* and his son Dib'an, leaders of a branch 
of the Banu Judham who had remained faithful to the Umayyads. ‘Abd 
al-Malik was then also forced to defend himself against a Byzantine 
offensive initiated by the emperor Justinian II Rhinothmetos, son of 
Constantine IV Pogonatos (Mas'udi calls him Law! ibn Flant). But ‘Abd 
al-Malik succeeded in maintaining his composure, managed to appease the 
emperor by grants of money (1,000 dinars per week) and gifts, and 
defeated the tribes of Filastln led by Natil b. Qays; according to Mas'udi 
the defeat took place at Ijnadayn. Natil b. Qays was killed in that battle. 
‘Abd al-Malik then sent a force of 6,000 fighters under Tariq b. ‘Amr (a 
client or mawla of the caliph ‘Uthman b. ‘Affan), who had formerly been 
the governor of Medina, to set up a temporary line of defence against the 
sons of Zubayr in the region between Eilat and the border of Hijaz 
(Wadi’l-Qura). Evidently the information regarding the Byzantine raid on 
Caesarea and Ascalon belongs to the beginning of ‘Abd al-Malik’s rule 


8o 



EVENTS TO THE END OF UMAYYAD RULE [SECS. 88-101] 


(ca.686; Baladhuri states that this occurred during the time of Ibn Zubayr). 
The Byzantines destroyed these two ports and exiled their inhabitants, and 
it is quite possible to conceive of this as pertaining to that war which was 
initiated by Justinian II. Afterwards, ‘Abd al-Malik stationed two special 
garrisons on permanent alert in these two cities. 6 

[94] Rawh b. Zinba 1 the Judhamite became one of the favourite com¬ 
panions of the victorious ‘Abd al-Malik. Some sources mention that he 
was much younger than his rival Natil ibn Qays, the supporter of ‘Ab¬ 
dallah ibn Zubayr. It is said that Rawh was very gifted and that his rank 
was like that of a wazir (an office that was as yet non-existent). ‘Abd 
al-Malik said of Abu Zur‘a (that is Rawh) that in obedience he was a Shaml 
(a man of al-Sham), in shrewdness he was an Iraqi, in knowledge of legal 
matters (fiqh ) he was a HijazI, and in calligraphy he was as good as a 
Persian. He died in the year AH 84, or AD 703. We shall find his sons, 
Dib‘an and Sa‘ld involved in later events. 7 


Muhammad ibn al-Hanafiyya 

[95] While the struggle between the Zubayrids and the Umayyads was 
at its height, a strong movement of the followers of the ‘Alids was afoot 
which had its centre in Kufa in Iraq, under the leadership of Mukhtar. This 
movement centred round the personality of Muhammad ibn ai-Hana- 
fiyya, the son of‘All from another woman (not from Fatima, ‘All’s wife 
and the daughter of the Prophet, but rather from Khawla, whom the 
Muslims captured from the Banu Hanifa), despite the fact that he himself 
did not take an active part in the movement’s actual leadership. Mu¬ 
hammad ibn al-Hanafiyya almost fell victim to the suspicions of‘Abdallah 
ibn Zubayr, who ruled Mecca at the time, that he was setting himself up as 
a rival. An army sent by Mukhtar freed Muhammad from the prison into 

6 See note 2 above; on the Banujudham and Banu Hamadan, see Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 468f, 
474, 481, 577; Ya‘qubl, Ta’rtkh, II, 298f, 321; Mas'udi, Muriij, V, 224f; Tanbih, 307; Khalifa 
ibn Khayyat, I, 332; Sibt ibn al-Jawzi, Kanz, 5; IsbahanI, Aghant, XII, 80; XVII, 111; Ibn 
‘Asakir, VII, 40f; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, IV, 145, 151; Ibn Abl Hadld, II, 368. Hassan b. Malik 
was not the only member of the Banu Kalb who had relations through marriage with the 
Umayyads, which continued for several generations. See on this; Lammens, Mo'atvia, 
310ff; and ibid., 286ff, on the family of Bahdal (ibn Unayf) and on Hassan, his grandson, 
important personalities in the Banu Kalb. See there also on the special link they had with the 
Banu Quda‘a, another important tribe which joined the supporters of the Umayyads. The 
destruction of Caesarea and Ascalon: Baladhuri, Futiih, 143 (garrisons; ratvabit). 

7 Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 1164; Baladhuri, Ansab, I, 36f; Yafi‘1, I, 175; Tha'alibI, Lata’if, 61, 159 
(praise of Abu Zur'a); DhahabI, Tbar, I, 98 (Head [sayyid] ofthejudham; commander [amir] 
of Filaspn); Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, IX, 55; Ibn ‘Asakir, V, 337f, who adds that Rawh had a 
house in Damascus and that his father, Zinba 1 , was of the saltaba, that is, of the Prophet’s 
circle; Ibn al-Tmad, I, 95; Ibn Khaldun, 'Ibar, III, 126. See also Lammens, Mo'atvia, 214, n. 
8 ( dahiya, a term used frequently at that time, meaning astute). See on the conflict between 
Rawh and Natil b. Qays also: Lammens, Yazid, 310ff. 


8i 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


which ‘Abdallah had thrown him. Apparently, this occurrence caused 
Muhammad to leave the peninsula. He then reached Eilat accompanied by 
a large group of his partisans. The people of Eilat welcomed him gladly. 
‘Abd al-Malik, when news of Muhammad’s arrival in Eilat reached Da¬ 
mascus, was uneasy about his proximity. After consultation with Rawh b. 
Zinba‘ thejudhamite and Qablsa b. Du’ayb, he wrote him a letter in which 
he demanded that Muhammad either leave the place or pledge his loyalty 
to him. In return for a declaration of loyalty, he promised to grant 
Muhammad a hundred ships, which would await him at the port of 
Qulzum (today, Suez) laden affluently. Muhammad ibn al-Hanafiyya 
then preferred to leave the city, for he wanted to maintain absolute 
neutrality between the camps who were still fighting at that time, that is 
the Umayyads and the Zubayrids. He moved to Medina and there he 
remained until ‘Abdallah ibn Zubayr’s final downfall in October 692. He 
died three months later. According to an anonymous chronicle of the 
ninth century AD, Muhammad’s base in Palestine was in Kudad, a dis¬ 
tance of some two miles from Humayma (in the region of Moab), which 
was also the base of the Abbasids. 8 


The sons of al-Muhallab 

[96] In the days of al-Walid b. ‘Abd al-Malik (705-715), his brother 
Sulayman ruled in Palestine. It was here that the sons of al-Muhallab, who 
had been one of the important commanders in the service of the 
Umayyads, found refuge. After the death of al-Muhallab, the sons were 
hounded angrily by al-Hajjaj ibn Yusuf, against a background of inter¬ 
tribal rivalry. They and their retinue were taken in by Wuhayb b. ‘Abd 
al-Rahman and Sufyan ibn Sulayman, both notables of the Banu Azd, a 
distinctly Yamani tribe, similar to the sons of al-Muhallab, who were also 
Yamanis. These two were retainers of Sulayman ibn ‘Abd al-Malik. 
Al-Hajjaj ibn Yusuf accused the sons of al-Muhallab of embezzling money 
and obtained an order from Caliph al-Walid to his brother Sulayman that 
he should send them to Damascus. And so Sulayman sent them (it is not 
clear whether he sent both brothers or merely the eldest Yazid), ac¬ 
companied by his own son, all three in chains. Then al-Walid took pity on 
them, however, and released them. 9 

8 See the article Muhammad b. al-Hanafiya (by F. Buhl) in EP; here the episode ofEilat is not 
mentioned at all. See about this matter: Ibn Sa'd, V, 79f; on p. 85 he mentions another date 
ofMuhammad’s death: the year AH 81, which is AD 700; Akhbar al-da-wla al-‘abdsiyya, 107, 
197; Dlnawari, 309; Kudad, see another version: Kurar humayma (status constructus); 
Tabari, Ta’rtkh, II, 1975. 

9 Tabari, Ta’rikh , II, 121 If; according to him this takes place in the year AH 90, which is AD 
709; in Ibn Khaldun, That, III, 140: the year AH 86 (AD 705): in the long run, the sons of 


82 




EVENTS TO THE END OF UMAYYAD RULE [SECS. 88-101] 
Religious unrest 


[97] The twenties of the eighth century were stormy ones as far as 
inter-faith relations were concerned. Within the Byzantine empire during 
the reign of Leo the Isaurian (714—717), the Iconoclastic movement was 
astir. The sources of the period contain claims that it was the Jews who 
incited the emperor to act against the worship of icons and crosses. On the 
other hand, it is stated that in the days of Leo there was an edict of forced 
baptism against the Jews. I have already mentioned that Theophanes 
wrote that ajew of Laodicea came to Yazld and proposed to him to rid the 
Christian churches under his dominion of all images, and that as a result, 
he would enjoy undisturbed rule for forty years. According to Theo¬ 
phanes this occurred in the seventh year of Leo’s reign, that is 723, during 
the days of Yazld II, son of‘Abd al-Malik. Yazld actually issued decrees 
against the worship of icons. According to other information in Theo¬ 
phanes, a man of Christian origin named Beser was taken and held in 
captivity in Syria by the Muslims (that is, the Umayyads), and accepted 
Islam. After he was freed from captivity, he returned to Byzantium, 
became a Christian again, and influenced Leo to introduce decrees against 
the worship of images. Another Christian source, on the other hand, tells 
the name of the Jew who swayed Yazid to order the destruction of all 
images worshipped by Christians throughout his domain. He was the 
leader of thejews in Tiberias (‘leader of the mad Jews, a magician and seer, 
a tool of the soul-destroying devils’) called Tessarakontapekhys ([the 
man] of forty cubits). But Yazid died in the same year and did not manage 
to achieve the destruction of the images. It is difficult to guess who is 
behind this description; it should be remembered that Tiberias was then 
still the centre of thejews of Palestine and the seat of the Sanhedrin. It 
would be interesting to juxtapose against it the story from an anonymous 
Muslim chronicle, according to which one said that the bitriq (patricius) 
who represented the emperor Leo in negotiations with the Muslims, was a 
clever man known by the nickname ‘the man of forty cubits’. 

At the same time, there was evidently considerable religious turbulence 
within the Islamic world itself. According to some sources, a false prophet 
appeared in Jerusalem during the rule of‘Abd al-Malik, a certain al-Harith 
b. Sa‘Id (or b. ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Sa‘Id), who was said to be a mawla 
(client) ofMarwan b. al-Hakam (the father of'Abd al-Malik). He attracted 
many followers in Jerusalem. ‘Abd al-Malik sent a special unit of forty 
men from Farghana (a district on the river Sir-Darya in Central Asia) to 
Jerusalem, led by a man of Basra; the composition of the unit perhaps 

al-Muhallab did not escape the verdict of fate - they rebelled and were executed in August 

720. 


83 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


indicates that ‘ Abd al-Malik did not trust the local people for this purpose. 
Al-Harith was caught, brought to Damascus, and there crucified. 10 


The uprising of the tribes in Palestine in 744 

[98] Serious events closely related to inter-tribal affairs began to occur in 
the Umayyad caliphate during the spring of744. It is important to note, in 
connection with our subject, that Palestine served as the principal arena for 
these events. The story as it appears in Tabari, told by Raja’ ibn Rawh ibn 
Salama, who was the great grandson of Rawh ibn Zinba‘ the Judhamite, 
runs as follows. At the head of the tribes in the Filastin region stood Sa‘id 
and Dib'an, the sons of Rawh ibn Zinba‘. After the murder of Caliph 
al-Walld II (who was the grandson of‘Abd al-Malik and the son of Yazld 
II) by Yazld his cousin (son ofal-Walld I and grandson of‘Abd al-Malik), 
in April 744, Sa‘Id b. Rawh wanted to dismiss Sa‘id b. ‘Abd al-Malik, who 
was the governor of Filastin, on behalf of the assassinated caliph, Walld. 
Despite the fact that Sa‘Id behaved well as governor of the region, the 
tribes preferred Yazld b. Sulayman b. ‘Abd al-Malik, who was the leader 
of the Sulayman family. This family lived within the domain of jund 
Filastin and enjoyed the affection of the local tribes. Sa‘Id b. Rawh 
then wrote to Yazld b. Sulayman on behalf of the tribes and proposed that 
he come (evidently from Damascus to Palestine) in order to be made 

10 On the forced baptism see Theophanes, 401; on thejew from Laodicea and on Beser, ibid., 
402. It appears to be an Arab name, Bishr. Cf.: Becker, Islamstudien, I, 446, and see the 
parallel in Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 1463f. AJew prophesied to Yazld ibn ‘Abd al-Malik that he 
would reign forty years; some say that the name ofthatjew was Abu Mawiya: anotherjew 
said about him that he lied, since in fact he saw (in a dream?) that he would reign forty reeds 
(qasaba) each reed being a month, and instead of that he said: years. It is interesting that this 
number — forty — is also woven into traditions and information on ‘the man of forty 
cubits’. On the forced baptism cf. also: Agapius of Manbij (Mahbub), 244; Elias of Nisibis, 
in Baethgen, to the year 101 (— 719-720); Michael the Syrian, IV, 457; Cedrenus, MPG, 
121, 869. This is also the time of the appearance of Jewish sects, of Abu ‘Isa al-Isfahant and 
of Severus; which is a topic of its own, and it is not known whether it has any connection to 
the history of Palestine. Thejew from Tiberias: Mansi XIII, 197ff (Council of Nicaea, 
787). The parallel between the sources was first discerned by Brooks, JHS, 19(1899), 
26-30, who added also the information in Theophanes regarding the brother-in-law ofthe 
empress Irene (799) whose name was Serantapekhos, which is the name ofthe Tiberias Jew 
in the Latin version of the proceedings of the council of Nicaea in Mansi, ibid. (Sarantapek- 
kos). See in Brooks, ibid., also the Muslim source (from al-'uyun wa’l-hada’iq). Starr, 
Speculum, 8:500,1933 excludes any possibility of historical truth in the Jewish aspect ofthe 
story and assumes that only is there the tendency to ascribe to the Jews the anti-Christian 
decrees in the Muslim world. This view is perhaps too extreme. Crone, JSA1, 2(1980), 
76ff, tries to prove by these sources on Bishr, etc., the existence ofJudaeo-Christian sects; 
but the matter is very obscure and the sources themselves say nothing about it. The matter 
ofal-Harith b. Sa'Id: Ibn ‘Asakir, III, 442ff; DhahabI, Ta’rikh, III, 147f, notes the time: the 
year AH 79, which is AD 698; according to Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, IX, 27, he was a zindlq, an 
appellation given generally to Manichaeans, but sometimes, in orthodox Islam to schis¬ 
matics of any description. 


84 



EVENTS TO THE END OF UMAYYAD RULE [SECS. 88-101] 

governor in jund Filastin, while Co Sa'id ibn ‘Abd al-Malik he wrote that 
he should vacate his position since the tribes preferred another. Sa'id ibn 
‘Abd al-Malik was then in Beersheba. In order to lend greater cogency to 
his letter, Sa‘Id ibn Rawh mobilised the tribes. Sa'id ibn ‘Abd al-Malik was 
taken aback at the size of the force facing him and fled to the new caliph, 
Yazid ibn al-Walid, to be followed by the tribes, led by Yazid ibn Sulay¬ 
man, going out to fight the caliph. This rebellion, which as mentioned 
began in jund Filastin, quickly spread to jund Urdun. The tribes there took 
on a new leader, Muhammad ibn ‘Abd al-Malik, and at the head of the 
tribes of Filastin there stood, as mentioned, Sa'id and Dib'an, the sons of 
Rawh ibn Zinba' the Judhamite. The caliph Yazid sent an army against 
them under the command of his cousin, Sulayman ibn Hisham ibn ‘Abd 
al-Malik. Sulayman preferred to negotiate, and with the help of envoys 
and mediators he succeeded in convincing the brothers Sa'id and Dib'an, 
the sons of Rawh, to submit to the caliph Yazid’s authority and to pledge 
their allegiance to him. Muhammad ibn ‘Abd al-Malik, the leader of the 
Urdunn tribes, also agreed to accept the new caliph’s authority. It seems 
that the most convincing argument was the distribution of benefits and 
various offices to the tribesmen. For instance, Dib'an was promised that 
he would be appointed governor of jund Filastin for life. One can say in 
summation that there was an outbreak of general rebellion within the 
Palestinian tribal framework and their refusal to accept the authority of the 
new caliph lasted until they were promised, on his part, various favours 
and benefits for their leaders. But the atmosphere among the tribes con¬ 
tinued to be antagonistic to the caliph. The official responsible for collect¬ 
ing taxes in Urdunn on behalf of the new caliph, Muhammad ibn Sa‘Id ibn 
Hassan, encountered opposition when he requested that people come to 
his office in Tiberias. He was obliged to ask for help from Sulayman ibn 
Hisham in that he should place an armed force at his disposal to overcome 
the opposition of the local tribes. Sulayman hesitated to fulfil his request, 
and only after Muhammad applied to the new caliph and obtained a 
written order to Sulayman, did the latter comply with his request. He then 
placed a force of5,000 men at his disposal, under the command of Muslim 
ibn Dhakwan. The army set forth at night and quartered its men in villages 
in the neighbourhood of the Sea of Galilee, while Muhammad ibn Sa'id 
ibn Hassan went out with a group of fighters in the direction of Tiberias. 
This time the tribesmen realised that there was no point in prolonging 
their opposition, with the army beginning to dominate the area and to 
treat the tribes’ property as ifit were their own. They expressed their anger 
with the two leaders of the rebellion against the new caliph, Yazid ibn 
Sulayman and Muhammad ibn ‘Abd al-Malik by robbing their homes, 
and even took their mounts and their arms. Afterwards they dispersed and 

85 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


each man returned homeward to his family. From then onward, Sulay¬ 
man ibn Hisham felt that he controlled the situation and that there were 
many roads open to him. He advanced with his army to al-Sinnabra south 
of the Sea of Galilee and the tribes of Urdunn came there and pledged their 
loyalty to the new caliph Yazld before Sulayman. From there, Sulayman 
sailed With his men to Tiberias and they all prayed together, for it was 
Friday, and there too all those present swore an oath of loyalty to Yazid. 

Despite the fact that it is not clearly stated or spelled out in any detail, it 
appears that one of the reasons for the rupture between Yazld and the 
tribes was the problem of the Jews and the Christians. Evidently Yazld 
strongly objected to the tribes’ extortion of non-Muslims and told them 
quite distinctly, ‘I will not tolerate your behaviour which causes the 
poll-tax payers to exile themselves from their country and see no future 
ahead of them. ’ The tribesmen saw in this a favouring of the non-believers 
and Yazld was accused openly of being qadart and ghaylani, that is to say, 
one of the disciples of Abu Marwan Ghaylan, a Jerusalemite who was one 
of the chief heralds of the school of free will and seemed to be under the 
influence of Christianity. 11 

11 See Tabari, II, 1831ff; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, V, 294. When these sources use the term aid or 
lids the tribes are always intended. See also: Ibn Kathlr, Biddya, X, 13; Abu’l-Fida’, 
Mukhtasar, I, 206; Ibn Khaldun, ‘Ibar, ill, 232; on the loyalty of the Palestinian tribes 
(especially SaTd b. Rawh b. Zinba') to Sulayman b. ‘Abd al-Malik and his son Yazld see 
the comments of Bosworth, IQ, 6(1972), 47f. The treatment of non-Muslims: Tabari, 
Ta’rlkh, II, 1834f; Yazld accused of being ghaylani and qadarl: DhahabI, Ta’rikh, IV, 289; 
V, 179; similar criticism of the attitude to the dhimmls can be found in what was said by 
Caliph Marwan ibn Muhammad; he points his finger at the tribes (evidently the tribes of 
Palestine): ‘You only want to rob the property of every dhimml you encounter’. See also, 
Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, V, 309. Ghaylan, of the leaders of the qadariyya in Damascus, was 
executed in Hisham ibn ‘Abd al-Malik’s day (724—743; see Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 1733), after a 
kind of religious disputation between him and Maymun b. Mihran. ‘Abd al-Malik’s 
grandson, Marwan b. ‘Abdallah, and the latter’s son, fell victim to the anger of the 
Damascene crowd and were murdered after being accused of belonging to the qadariyya, 
who favour free will. The caliph Yazld was also accused ofhaving appointed officials from 
among the followers of Ghaylan, among them Mansur b. Jumhur, made governor of Iraq 
(see Tabari, ibid., 1828, 1874); DhahabI, Ta’rikh, IV, 289, calls Ghaylan: Ghaylan al- 
QudsI, that is, he was a Jerusalemite. According to him there was a sort of cross- 
examination going on in the presence of the caliph Hisham ibn ‘Abd al-Malik, by the cadi 
al-Awza‘1: Ghaylan refused to repent despite all the warnings, and so he had his limbs torn 
off and was crucified. DhahabI, Ta’rikh, V, 289, points out that Yazld was probably 
inclined to Ghaylan’s views (he does not refer to Ghaylan the man, for Ghaylan himself 
was executed before this). See also Ibn Sa‘d, V, 395; according to ‘Ubada b. al-Samit (see 
on him below), the Prophet himselfhad already foretold the appearance of Ghaylan, who 
will create a schism among the Muslims, worse than that created by Satan. See ibid., 
VII(2), 177fi on Maymun b. Mihran, who was one of the officials of the caliph ‘Umar ibn 
‘Abd al-‘Aziz, and it appears that the disputation between him and Ghaylan was conducted 
in letters; it seems that Ghaylan admonished Maymun for being in the service ofthe caliphs 
(‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘AzIz and Yazld ibn ‘Abd al-Malik), and Maymun expressed his 
regrets about it. See also the article Ghaylan b. Muslim in EP (by C. Pellat), and the article 
on Ghaylan’s movement by Van Ess, SI, 31:269, 1970. 


86 



EVENTS TO THE END OF UMAYYAD RULE [SECS. 88-101] 

The uprising of the tribes in Palestine in 745 

[99] About half a year later, Palestine again erupted, this time during the 
reign of Marwan II, ibn Muhammad ibn Marwan, who became caliph at 
the end of November 744. At the same time, at the head of the tribes of 
Urdunn stood his cousin, al-Walid ibn Mu'awiya ibn Marwan, and at the 
head ofthejund Filastln tribes stood Thabit ibn Nu'aym al-Judhaml. The 
latter had been appointed on behalf of the former caliph, Ibrahim ibn 
al-Walid, to be responsible for the diwan Filastln, that is, to handle the 
registration of the tribes and to execute the payment of allowances and 
subsidies. The Palestinian tribes at that point joined the uprising which 
broke out in northern Syria, in Hims. Leading the rebellious tribes in 
Palestine was the same Thabit ibn Nu‘aym. He descended on Tiberias but 
al-Walid ibn Mu‘awiya managed to hold his ground; after a battle that 
lasted a few days, the caliph sent reinforcements under Abu’l-Ward Maj- 
zah b. al-Kawthar, of the tribal federation of the Banu Kilab, to help the 
beleaguered fighters in Tiberias. The population of Tiberias (apparently 
the non-Muslims) also went out to fight against Thabit ibn Nu‘aym, and 
his men were scattered to the winds. His three sons, Nu‘aym, Bakr and 
‘Imran, were caught, while he himself managed to escape. His sons were 
executed and the same fate awaited him when he was later caught together 
with another son, Rifa‘a. Marwan then appointed a man from the Banu 
Kinana as governor ofjund Filastln, al-Rumahis ibn ‘Abd al-‘AzIz. The 
disturbances evidently continued throughout the winter until the summer 
of 745. Immediately afterwards, another insurrection broke out in north¬ 
ern Syria, this time headed by Sulayman ibn Hisham. This rebellion, 
drowned in rivers of blood, once again included the tribes of Palestine, and 
during its course, as Theophanes tells us, Marwan destroyed the walls of 
Jerusalem, as he did in Hi ms, Damascus and other cities. 12 


Humayma - the end of the Umayyads 

[100] Only some five years separated these events from the end of the 
reign of the Umayyads. Feverish activities were already underway in the 

12 Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 1892, 1894; III, 46; Baladhuri, Futiih, 209; Mas‘udl, Tanbih, 326; Ibn 
al-Athlr, Kamil , V, 330f; al-Ruinahis - evidently the correct version, and not al-Dumahin 
as in the editor’s note in Ibn al-Athlr, ibid. ; DhahabI, Ta’rikh, V, 32; Ibn Kathxr, Bidaya, X, 
23; Abu’l-Fida’, Mukhtasar, I, 207; Ibn Khaldun, ‘Ibar, III, 244; Theophanes, 422; Breyer, 
64; on Thabit ibn Nu'aym see also: Jahshiyari, 71; on al-Rumahis see also; Firuzabadi, 
Muhit, II, 220; al-Rumahis b. ‘Abd al-‘Uzza; he was in charge of the police ( shurta ) of the 
caliph Marwan ibn Muhammad. Ibn ‘Asakir, V, 328: he moved afterwards (that is, after 
the Abbasid coup) to Andalus and was in the service of the Caliph ‘Abd al-Rahman. These 
events were the result of the serious polarisation which occurred among the tribes after the 
murder of al-Walid, between ‘north’ and ‘south’. The tribes of ‘the north’ (Mudar) 
supported Marwan while the tribes of‘the south’ (Yaman) opposed him. Cf. Nagel, 
Untersuchungen, 150. 


87 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


underground of both sides of the revolution, Khurasan in the east and 
Humayma in Palestine, in the region of Moab. Humayma was situated 
some fifty kilometres southeast of Ma‘an in Trans-Jordan. ‘All ibn ‘Ab¬ 
dallah, the grandson of ‘Abbas, the uncle of the Prophet, settled there in 
the year 690 or thereabouts; he fortified the place and it became a centre for 
the descendants of the Abbasids. According to the tradition (which un¬ 
doubtedly has no historical authenticity), Abu Hashim ‘Abdallah, the son 
of Muhammad ibn al-Hanafiyya, transferred his rights as imam and leader 
of the Muslim world, while he was on his deathbed, to Muhammad ibn 
‘All of the Abbasids, the son of the above-mentioned‘All. From that time, 
Muhammad ibn ‘All was the leader of the Abbasids; he was the father of 
the two first Abbasid caliphs: Abu’l-‘Abbas al-Saffah and Abu Ja‘far 
al-Mansur. 13 

[101] As is known, the centre of the insurrection moved to Khurasan, 
under the leadership of Abu Muslim, who united all the streams and the 
sects of the Umayyads’ enemies into one movement. From Khurasan the 
rebelling armies spearheaded westward; on 2 September 749 they con¬ 
quered Kufa. In the meantime, the Abbasids joined the revolution under 
Abu’l-‘ Abbas, the elder son of Muhammad ibn ‘All. Marwan suffered his 
final defeat in January 750, on the Great Zab river, to the east of the Tigris. 
The last act took place in Palestine, at Abu Futrus, which is Antipatris 
(Rosh ha-‘ayin), where the Umayyads were slaughtered. The sources 
generally speak of the killing of eighty of the Umayyads, the execution 
being supervised by ‘Abdallah ibn ‘All, Abu’l-‘Abbas al-Saffah’s uncle. 14 


13 See: Akhbar al-dawla al-'abbastya , 185; Ibn ‘Abd Rabbihi, IV, 475f (on the circumstances of 
the arrival of ‘Abdallah ibn Muhammad ibn al-Hanafiyya to his cousin the Abbasid, 
Muhammad ibn ‘All ibn ‘Abdallah ibn ‘Abbas at Humayma); Ibn Khallikan, III, 278; VI, 
315; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, V, 53; cf. Lammens, Mo'awia, 127f; he points to the fact that 
Humayma was near Adhruh and the villagers who lived in Adhruh were mawali, con¬ 
verted to Islam, who were clients of the Hashimids, and this is perhaps why the Abbasids 
settled just in Humayma. That Adhruh was inhabited by Christians we can learn from the 
colophon of an Arabic manuscript in the Monastery of St Catherine in the Sinai, from the 
year AH 288 (AD 901), saying that the anba (father) Musa b. Hakim al-QasIs (the priest) 
al-Adhruhl ordered the book (a collection of religious sayings). See Oestrup, ZDMG, 
51(1897), 453, and see also in Lammens, ibid. See further Shaban, Abb. Rev., 150f; the 
article Humayma (by D. Sourdel) in EP. 

14 Tabari, Ta’rTkh, III, 47ff(he writes that the governor and official of the treasury at the time 
in jund Filastln was a man of the BanuJudham, an offspring of Rawh b. Zinba‘, al-Hakam 
ibn Dib'an); Ya'qubI, Ta’rikh, II, 425f; Mas‘udl, Muriij, VI, 75f; al-'Uyiin wa'l-hada’iq (De 
Goeje), 203f; Ibn Qutayba, Ma'drif, 372; DhahabI, Ta’nkh, V, 297; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, V, 
425; Ibn al-‘Adim, Zubda, I, 54; Ibn ‘Asakir, III, 134; Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, X, 45 (92,000 
men were killed in one day near ‘a river in Ramla’); Ibn Taghri BardI, I, 258, 324 (‘a large 
group of the supporters of the Umayyads were imprisoned in Egypt by Salilj b. ‘All, 
another uncle of the Abbasid caliph, governor of Egypt, and in the end, they were 
executed in ‘Qalansawa in the land of Filastln’); see also ibid., II, 7; Ibn Khaldun, ‘Ibar, III,. 


88 



NATURAL DISASTERS [SEC. 102] 

Natural disasters 


[102] Until now, we have seen to what extent Palestine was involved in 
the military and political events of the Umayyad period. The tribes living 
in Palestine during that era and who were an important element in the 
military and political system set up by the Umayyads were a permanent 
and active factor in these events. Before dealing with other aspects of life in 
Palestine during this period, we must outline some of the misfortunes and 
disasters that befell Palestine that were not of man’s doing. 

I have already mentioned above the earthquake that occurred in 659, 
some two years before Mu'awiya was pronounced caliph in Jerusalem, 
evidence of which has been preserved in Theophanes and in Syriac 
sources. In the year AH 80, or AD 699/700, a severe plague hit al-Sham, 
which prevented the usual summer raid on Byzantine areas. One year 
later, we are told of the Dome of the Rock having been hit by lightning. In 
AH 86, or AD 705, a calamitous plague once again broke out in al-Sham, 
known as the plague of the girls, because its first victims were women. 
Further plagues were recorded in AH 115, AD 733, and in AH 116, AD 
734. A Christian source (and there are no parallels in Muslim sources) 
informs us of a severe earthquake which affected all of Palestine (including 
Iordane) and Syria, in which myriad people were killed and many monas¬ 
teries destroyed, particularly injerusalem. A very devastating earthquake 
occurred in the year AH 130 (beginning 11 September AD 747), during 
which the eastern and western sides of the Dome of the Rock collapsed. 
Many of the ansar (people of Medina), who were living injerusalem, were 
killed during this earthquake, especially as a result of the caving in of the 
house of Shaddad b. Aws. All his sons were killed in that earthquake. The 
people of Jerusalem fled from the city and remained in the fields for forty 
days. We also have information about this earthquake from Christian 
sources. According to Michael the Syrian, Tiberias was then completely 
destroyed, with the exception of the home of one man whose name was 
‘Isa. Thirty Jewish synagogues in the town were also laid waste and the 
Jewish bath-houses were also destroyed. According to Ibn Muqaffa‘, the 
quake took place on the 16th of January, and Agapius also mentions the 
month ofjanuary. Kedrenos mentions the 18th of January, but he is off the 
mark with regard to the year. It is possible that this earthquake determined 
the setting of a fast called ‘the fast of the Sabbatical year’. Indeed, the year 
of the earthquake, AM 4508, was a Sabbatical year. It is possibly to this 
earthquake that the poem yoser ra 'ash shevt'T, written by a poet named 
Samuel, refers. It recalls the earthquake and its disastrous effects in Ti- 

271, 283. See also Moscati, Archiv Orientalni, 18(3): 88, 1950 (who does not say anything 

new). 


89 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


berias and Ramla (‘in the Shefela, in the Valley of the Sharon’). Many were 
drowned at the time, and it is not clear where ‘little children and women, 
teachers of the Bible and the Mishna’ suffered this fate. Its superscription 
reads the 23rd of She vat, which in that year (AD 748) fell on the 28 th of 
January (Sunday), and this differs from what is stated in some of the 
Christian sources. The difference is not great and it possibly stems from a 
mistake in the copying of the Christian sources. 15 


The religious status of Jerusalem 

[103] A most important development in the status ofjerusalem occurred 
during the Umayyad period, and this was its transformation into a 
Muslim holy place. We have seen that there was a different relationship to 
the city at the time of its conquest, when ‘Umar decided that the Muslims 
would pray with their backs towards the rock on the Temple Mount, so as 
not to behave in the manner of the Jews. Even if we assume that there is no 
historical truth in this story, it at any rate reflects the basic approach of the 
Muslims during the first generations of the occupation. This qibla, Jerusa¬ 
lem, was the first direction which the Prophet faced, but he himself ruled it 
out after the hijra. ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab, his heir and the fulfiller of his 
testament, loyally continued the tradition laid down by the Prophet, 

15 The plague in the year 80: Khalifa ibn Khayyat, II, 360; Ibn Kathir, Bidaya, IX, 27 (who 
has: in the year 79). The incidence of the lightning: Dhahabi, Ta’rikh, III, 227. ‘The plague 
of the girls’: Ibn Kathir, Bidaya, IX, 61 (ta'iin al-fatayat)\ and on other plagues: ibid., 309, 
312. The earthquake in 738: Papadopoulos-Kerameos, III, 4 (he is perhaps mistaken; 
actually it is the earthquake of the year 747/8 which is meant); the earthquake in 747/8: 
WasitT, 84; Maqdisi, Muthir (Le Strange), 304; Dhahabi, Siyar, II, 330; Ibn Taghri Bardi, I, 
311. Pseudo-Dionysios (Chabot), 47 (text), 42 (translation), points out that the earthquake 
occurred in 1059 Sel., which is AD 747/8, ‘in the land of the west’; Agapius, 521 (he claims 
that more than a hundred thousand people died in Tiberias then); Elias of Nisibis, 171 
(text); 82 (translation): the quake was in the year AH 131; a village in the neighbourhood of 
Mount Tabor moved from its place four miles without any damage having been caused; 
Severus (Evetts), 393f: the quake occurred on the 21st of Tuba, the day of the death of St 
Mary (the Dormition, i.e., 16th of January, cf. DTC, X, 2302), and Egypt was not 
affected apart from Dumyat (Damietta); it was felt from Gaza to the border of the Persian 
regions. Theophanes, 651, and following him Cedrenus, II, 7, set the time of the earth¬ 
quake in the sixth year of Constantine V (Copronymus), which is 746, and pointed out 
that it was felt in Palestine as far as the River Jordan, and in all of Syria; thousands of people 
were killed and many monasteries and churches were destroyed, particularly in the desert 
region around Jerusalem. Cf, Zonarls, III, 268; some of the above references are men¬ 
tioned by Creswell, Early Muslim Architecture 1 , 374, n. 3. Michael the Syrian, II, 510 (p. 466 
in the original), does not mention an exact date, but the quake is mentioned in the 
framework of events that took place after 740 (contrary to what is said in Assafand Mayer, 
Sefer ha-yishtw, 10, n. 8). The piyyut: Zulay, Yedi'ot, 3(1936/7), 156-162; the connection 
between the piyyut and the earthquake of 748 was first suggested by Margaliot, BJPES, 
8(1940/41), 97-104, and sec there the fragment from the poet Pinhas, who also mentions 
‘the fast of the earthquake of the sabbatical year’. See also idem, Tarbiz, 29:339, 1959/60. 


90 



THE RELIGIOUS STATUS OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 103-114] 

signifying that Jerusalem was not holy to the Muslims, and that only the 
Jews were still wholeheartedly attached to its sanctity. 

The new status ofjerusalem and the renewed recognition of its sanctity 
were not the result of scholarly discussions or new theological interpret¬ 
ation. They were born with the Dome of the Rock, an idea conceived by 
the ruler, Caliph ‘Abd al-Malik, and translated by the best architects and 
builders of the time into a language of pillars and arches bearing all the 
splendour that the imagination could possibly envision. 

‘Umar built his first mosque only as a place of prayer (and the meaning 
of the Arabic word masjid is place of prayer for the Muslims) on the 
Temple Mount out of respect and recognition of the tradition of the 
Children of Israel, which linked this place with the memory of the ancient 
prophets, the predecessors of Muhammad and his heralds. We have seen 
that the view attributing the building of the Mosque to ‘Umar is con¬ 
firmed both in the Arab traditions and by Theophanes, the Byzantine 
chronicler; while on the other hand, the author of‘the Mysteries of Rabbi 
Shimon Bar Yohai’ was imprecise when he attributed to ‘Umar the 
achievement of ‘Abd al-Malik two generations later. ‘The second king 
who will arise from Ishmael’ will, according to his words, ‘hollow out 
Mount Moriah and make it entirely into a plain and build there a place of 
bowing down on the foundation stone, as it is said: and thou puttest thy 
nest in the rock. ’ Arculf, a Gallic bishop (it is not clear whether he was 
from the south of France or from Wales), who visited Palestine one or two 
generations after the conquest, gives us a description of the mosque put up 
by ‘Umar. In his words, this is what the Muslims built on the Temple 
Mount: ‘. . . quadrangulam orationis dotnum quam subrectis tabulis et magnis 
trabibus super quasdam reliquias construentes, vili fabricati sunt opere . . .’ (they 
built a house of prayer in the form of a square made of wooden planks and 
large beams which they constructed over the remnants [of ruined build¬ 
ings], a work of inferior quality). It is obvious that this structure was of a 
type similar to that of the Prophet’s mosque in Medina. According to 
Muslim tradition, the Prophet, when he first decided to build a mosque in 
Medina, asked that the building should be simple, like the ‘booth of 
Moses’ ‘artsh Musa, for in any case the end of the world was imminent. 16 

16 ‘The mysteries of Rabbi Shimon Bar Yoljai’: Jellinek, Bet ha-midrash, III, 79; the Biblical 
quotation is from the verse ‘And he looked on the Kenites, and took up his parable, and 
said, strong is thy dwellingplace, and thou puttest thy nest in a rock’ (Num., xxiv:21). 
Arculf: in Tobler et Molinier, I, 145. On the Prophet’s mosque see the traditions gathered 
and interpreted by Kister, BSOAS, 25:150, 1962. On the resemblance of the ancient 
mosque of ‘Umar on the Temple Mount, according to the description of Arculf and the 
mosque of the Prophet in Medina: Abel, DACL, VII(2), 2304; on the parallel between 
Arculf s description and the Muslim traditions on the building of the mosque in ‘Umar’s 
days (or according to his orders): Riess, ZDPV, 11(1888), 208. Musharraf, 23a, says that 
‘Umar appointed Salam b. Qaysar to pray at the head of the believers injerusalem (in other 


9i 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


[104] It was during his reign as caliph that ‘Abd al-Malik had the Dome 
of the Rock constructed, a building that was in complete contradiction to 
the modesty of the period of the conquest. The work of construction 
evidently began in 688. ‘Abd al-Malik appointed three people to be 
responsible for putting up the structure: Raja’ b. Hayawa, Yazid b. Salam 
and his son, Baha’ b. Yazid. The last two were clients ( mawalt) of‘Abd 
al-Malik (they were, possibly, originally Christians). ‘Abd al-Malik 
informed all the districts under Muslim rule of his decision to build the 
mosque, and all his subjects consented to the plan. He gathered expert 
builders from all over his domain. Before they started on the actual 
construction, they set up a model for the caliph according to their designs, 
near the building site. The income from the collection of taxes ( kharaj) in 
Egypt for the course of seven years was invested in the building. In the 
building process, the caliph was represented by his son Sa‘id, called Sa‘Id 
the Good. The building work lasted four years, from 688 to 692. The 
Christian chronicler Sa‘Id ibn Bitrlq attributes the construction of the 
Dome of the Rock to ‘Abd al-Malik’s son al-Walld. In his version, the 
latter ordered the removal of the dome of the church in Ba'labakk, a dome 
of gilded brass, and its replacement on the building he put up in Jerusalem. 
But it seems that this information is not credible, and the Muslim sources 
are reliable in ascribing the erection of the Dome of the Rock to ‘Abd 
al-Malik. It is possible, however, that the information with regard to 
al-Walld refers to the building of the al-Aqsa mosque. A Jewish midrash 
tells that ‘Abd al-Malik b. Marwan ‘. .. shall build the house of the God of 
Israel’, a version that appears somewhat strange to us today, but is cer¬ 
tainly intended to say: ‘shall build on the site where the house of the God of 
Israel stood’. The clearest proof that it was indeed ‘Abd al-Malik who built 
the Dome of the Rock is the passage on the upper rim of the central arches, 
on the outer southeastern side, where the date AH 72 (AD 692) is in¬ 
scribed, even though the name ‘Abd al-Malik was replaced by that of the 
Abbasid caliph al-Ma’mun. 17 

sources: Sal am a). From the above-mentioned descriptions in the Muslim traditions it 
emerges that the first mosque on the Temple Mount was built to the south, evidently on 
the site where the al-Aqsa mosque was subsequently erected. 

17 Wasiti, 81ff; Musharraf, 23b; Maqdisi, Muthir (Le Strange), 297ff; ‘Ulaymi, 240ff (accord¬ 
ing to him, one started to build in the year AH 66, that is AD 685/6); Ibn al-‘ArabI, 
Muhadara , II, 366ff; Sa‘id ibn Bitrlq, II, 42; Ibn Khaldun, ‘Ibar, III, 148; he probably copied 
from Ibn Bitrlq and shortened it: he built the Dome of the Rock on the site of a Christian 
church which he destroyed. Donner, ZDPV , 93(1977), 4, did not understand SaTd ibn 
Bitrlq correctly, as if he said that ‘Abd al-Malik ‘enlarged the mosque by including the 
rock within it’; actually he merely says that he built a magnificent mosque with the rock at 
its centre. The midrash: Bodl MS Heb f24 (Cat. Neubauer 2642), in Wertheimer, Batte 
midmshot, II, 30 (Jerusalem 1893/4); cf. Levi, REJ, 67(1914), 178. The Arab sources 
mentioned above note that ‘Abd al-Malik also ordered a treasury building to be con¬ 
structed (apparently to house the money intended for the Dome of the Rock), and perhaps 


92 



THE RELIGIOUS STATUS OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 103-114J 


[105] In establishing this splendid building, ‘Abd al-Malik undoubtedly 
wished to convey a message to the Muslims as well as to non-believers. 
Since he considered Palestine, and within it, Jerusalem, part of the area 
which served as the principal and most loyal base of his reign, he devoted 
considerable attention to the place and most certainly wished to empha¬ 
sise, first of all, the religious significance of Jerusalem in the eyes of the 
Muslims. Arab sources of the Middle Ages tried to attribute to him radical 
and far-reaching tendencies. As the Hijaz was in the hands of the Zubayrid 
rebels, ‘Abd al-Malik wanted to divert the hearts of the believers from 
Mecca and substitute the Dome of the Rock for the Ka‘ba. On the other 
hand, however, the same sources point out that it was the magnificence of 
the Christian churches in Jerusalem that motivated ‘Abd al-Malik to 
construct a building which would supersede them in beauty and splendour 
and demonstrate the superiority of Islam. According to Muqaddasi, when 
he asked his uncle whether al-Walid would not have done better if the 
Muslims’ money spent on building a mosque in Damascus was spent on 
the building of roads and public works and defence, his uncle explained to 
him that al-Sham was a Christian country with beautiful churches, attrac¬ 
tive to the eye and which have become famous, like the Church of the 
Holy Sepulchre, or the church in Lod and the church in al-Ruha (Edessa). 
So the Muslims put up a mosque which would put these in the shade and 
attract Muslim attention - one of the wonders of the world: ‘For it is clear 
that when ‘Abd al-Malik saw the beauty of the Dome of the Tomb [in the 
text: qubbat al-qumama, dome of the refuse] and its form, he was afraid lest 
it arouse respect in the hearts of the Muslims and he erected this dome on 
the rock’. The tradition which crystallised in the time of the Umayyads is 
interesting, according to which a true caliph is only one who governs over 
the two mosques of Mecca and Jerusalem. 18 

it is the building which is still standing to the east of the Dome of the Rock, which is the 
qubbat al-silsila. The inscription ‘Abd al-Malik: Kessler, JRAS, 1970, 9; Creswell, Early 
Muslim Architecture 2 , 69; regarding the date it is worth noting a seventeenth century source: 
the Italian Franciscan Morone da Maleo, who was the appointee ( custos) of the Holy See in 
Palestine (1651-1657), and in his book Terra Santa nuovamente illustrata, 1669-1670,1, 81, 
quoted in Italian an inscription from the Dome of the Rock, according to which the 
mosque was built by ‘the great king, son of Marwan (il re grande Jiglio de Mesuan[l}) in the 
65th year of the hijrz (de‘ Saraceni)’, that is AD 684/5, which is, of course, an error, for only 
in that year (towards the end) did ‘Abd al-Malik become caliph. See the version in 
Clermont Ganneau, Rec. , II, 400, and see a detailed discussion in Sharon, Baneth Memorial 
Volume: 245. 

18 Muqaddasi, Aqalim, 159; Ibn Taymiyya, Majmu'a, II, 61: ‘Abd al-Malik wanted to attract 
people to a religious visit ( ziyara) to Jerusalem instead of the haji to Mecca. See also 
Ya'qubJ, Ta'rikh, II, 311; and so also the Christian Sa'id ibn Bitnq, II, 39: ‘Abd al-Malik 
forced people to go on pilgrimage to Jerusalem and did not permit them to go on 
pilgrimage to Mecca, because of ‘Abdallah ibn al-Zubayr. The tradition on the two 
mosques: ‘Ulayml, 213f; cf. Hirschbcrg, Rocznik Orient., 17(1951/2), 319f (in Hirsch- 
berg’s opinion the story of‘Umar’s visit to Jerusalem and his interest in the Temple Mount 


93 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


[106] The Dome of the Rock has caught the attention of many of those 
who deal with the history of Muslim art, hoping to discover the identity 
and ethnic kinship of its builders and to clarify the architectural tradition to 
which they adhered. Different and conflicting opinions have been ex¬ 
pressed on this subject. Some attribute the building to Roman tradition, 
but most scholars ascribe it to the Byzantine art of building and claim that 
the executors were architects and craftsmen brought from Byzantium, 
pointing to the architectural similarity to the group of buildings of the 
Church of the Holy Sepulchre in particular. Of the most recent studies on 
the subject, that of Grabar is the most outstanding, particularly in terms of 
his analysis of the artistic motifs that appear in the interior ornamentation. 
These represent, according to Grabar, images of authority and conquest, 
especially the crowns; in this he finds parallels in Persian and Byzantine 
art, and also explicit examples of the use of the symbolism of the victor. 
Both these symbols and the verses from the Koran inscribed on the walls 
of the building are directed to a non-Muslim population and express three 
basic ideas: the principles of the Muslim creed; the stature of Muhammad 
and the universal nature of his mission; and the reverent standing Islam 
also reserves for the earlier prophets - Jesus and the others. Therefore, 
Grabar finds in all this a direct appeal to the ‘peoples of the book’. 
Profound and exhaustive discussions on these questions can also be found 
in the writings ofCreswell, who in 1924 already defined the connections 
between the Dome of the Rock and Christian-Byzantine architectural 
concepts found chiefly in three structures: the Church of the Holy Se¬ 
pulchre, the Church of the Ascension on the Mount of Olives, and the 

interlinked with the need to maintain Mecca’s stature expresses a similar tendency). 
Goitein challenged the view that was common to many scholars which gave too much 
credit to the alleged intention of ‘Abd al-Malik to establish a holy place which would 
compete in sanctity with the ka'ba due to political circumstances (the revolt of the 
Zubayrids); see his article: JAORS, 70:104, 1950, and also the chapter on the sanctity of 
Jerusalem and Palestine in ancient Islam: Studies , 135—148; opposing him Caskel, Felsen- 
dom, 24ff, maintained the contrary opinion, arguing that what MuqaddasI wrote on the 
competition with the Christians only refers to the building style, the splendour; the 
motivation, however, was political, that is the domination ofMecca by the Zubayrids; but 
the verse he quotes, p. 28, does not prove anything, and contrary to his opinion, one 
cannot interpret the name Quraysh as meaning the Zubayrids, being a rather poetic 
parallelism to the Umayyads mentioned in continuation. Crone and Cook, 19, see the 
placing of the Dome of the Rock on the place of the Jewish temple as an expression of the 
severance of the connection between Islam and Judaism (a very strong connection, 
according to the view they are trying to prove). Creswell, Early Muslim Architecture 2 , 66f 
argues fervently in favour of the argument that the building of the Dome of the Rock, was 
indeed motivated by political reasons. Whereas Baer, OLZ, 68(1973), 120f, in a critical 
review on Creswell’s book, goes to the defence of Goitein. Poliak, Dinaburg Jubilee 
Volume, 165, maintains the far-fetched supposition, that does not seem well-founded, that 
the special status of the rock was the result of Jewish propaganda. It was mainly the Jews 
who had converted to Islam, who, in his opinion, had spread the idea that the foundation 
stone was the centre of the world and therefore obviously the most holy of places. 


94 



THE RELIGIOUS STATUS OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 103-114] 


Cathedral of Busra. He expressed and developed his views in detail in the 
second edition of his book on ancient Muslim architecture. A wide canvas 
of comparisons with Christian buildings with centuries of tradition 
behind them is discussed by Echouard in an article he published in 1972. 
He refers to buildings intended to be used in the rituals of the saints, 
generally built around the grave of that saint and intended to receive the 
masses who came to pray to him, and he gives comparative descriptions of 
various churches of this type, such as the church of St Simeon (Stylites) in 
northern Syria, of St Vitale in Ravenna, and others. 19 

[107] A central point in all of these architectural discussions on the 
Dome of the Rock is its octagonal form. An attempt was made, with some 
justification, to compare this aspect of the mosque to Christian structures, 
but it seems to me that the basis of this type of building is, in this case, a 
specifically Muslim concept. It is a description of Paradise, which the 
Muslim tradition claims (in the name of the Prophet) has eight openings. 
Indeed, the tradition attributed to the Prophet declares that the rock (on 
the Temple Mount) belongs to Paradise. 20 

[108] Another important step in the process of investing Jerusalem and 
the Temple Mount with holiness was the building of the al-Aqsa mosque. 
The Muslim sources have not generally preserved any detailed infor¬ 
mation on its construction. Some of them attribute it to ‘Abd al-Malik and 
others to his son al-Walid (705-715). It now appears that the time of its 
construction can be determined more precisely with the aid of papyri 
preserved in Egypt (in Aphrodito, upper Egypt) which deal with ship¬ 
ments of workers and the supplies from Egypt for the building of the 
mosque injerusalem. These papyri, to the extent one can discern from the 
dates listed in them, are from a period of about ten years, from 706 to 717, 
which is the period of Walid and Sulayman, the sons of‘Abd al-Malik. 
One can surmise, therefore, that the building of the mosque began in the 
days of Walid (and it is not unlikely that building had already begun during 

19 See the brief summary of various views on the architectural tradition which can be 
revealed in the Dome of the Rock in Briggs, 36f; and see Grabar, AO, 3:33, 1959; 
Creswell, Origin', idem. Early Muslim Architecture 2 , 67-123, and see especially his survey of 
the various approaches, 101-109. Sec also the article on the mosaics of the Dome of the 
Rock by M.Van Berchem in Creswell’s book, 213-322; Ecochard, BEO, 25:37, 1972. A 
somewhat unusual approach is that of Strzygowski, Der Islam, 2:79, 1911, who tried to 
prove that the building style is basically Persian. 

20 The tradition on the eight openings of Paradise occurs in many places, for example: Ibn 
Maja, 1, 512 (no. 1604); Muslim, I, 227; Nasa’I, Sunan, I, 78; ‘Azlzl, II, 216. The rock 
belongs to Paradise: it seems that the more ancient form of the hadith refers to what the 
Prophet said of a species of dates from Medina, al-'ajwa, that they are from Paradise; 
afterwards the rock was added; al-'ajwa waj-sakhra-, see Ibn Maja, II, 1143 (no. 3456); Ibn 
al-Athlr, Nihaya, II, 254. At the End of the Days, the Paradise will move to Jerusalem; see 
Yaqut, Buldan, IV, 592; and see more traditions on the connection between the sakhra and 
Paradise in Wasiti, 67£f, 78. 


95 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


the reign of ‘ Abd al-Malik, who died in October 705). Unlike the Dome of 
the Rock, which despite its many renovations has been preserved basically 
as it was built, with most of the ancient inscriptions intact, there have been 
many alterations in the al-Aqsa mosque and nothing remains that can tell 
us of its early history. 21 

[109] The construction of the two magnificent mosques on the Temple 
Mount was contrary to the spirit of early Islam, which denied the sanctity 
of the place on the one hand, and considered that more modest structures 
should suffice, on the other. This was evidently the turning point in 
determining the religious status of Jerusalem and the Temple Mount. 
‘Abd al-Malik and his sons turned the Temple Mount into a magnet which 
drew thousands of visitors from the Muslim world who were on their way 
to Mecca, and this is where the process of sanctification began, a process 
which increasingly produced its own momentum. These caliphs laid the 
physical foundations which, from then on, lent a renewed spiritual aura to 
the Temple Mount, and around which traditions were created and these, 
in the manner of Muslim traditions, naturally related to the commentaries 
of the Koran and the hadtth, and were rumoured to have come from the 
Prophet himself. A kernel of the tradition brought about in this way can be 
found in siirat al-isra’ (the chapter of the night journey) which is xvii, verse 
1: ‘Praised be He who took his slave for a night journey, one night, from 
the holy masjid [i.e. the ka‘ba\ to the furthermost masjid whose surround¬ 
ings We blessed [it is God speaking here, pluralis], in order to show to him 
[to the slave, i.e. Muhammad] some of Our signs’. According to the hadtth 
traditions that developed around this verse, it was the angel Gabriel who 
carried Muhammad, mounted on al-Buraq, a winged beast of burden, 
from Mecca to Sinai, from there to Bethlehem (some say to Hebron as 
well), and from there tojerusalem. There Gabriel put him down alongside 
the gate of the mosque, and tied al-Buraq to the iron ring that all the 
prophets had always, from time immemorial, tied their horses to. Even 
older traditions interpret the expression al-masjid al-aqsa (‘the furthermost 
mosque’): the house of prayer in heaven, and they tie in the isra’, the night 
journey, with the mi'raj (the ladder), that is the ascension of the Prophet to 
heaven. There Muhammad prayed in the company of the other prophets: 
Abraham, Moses, Jesus and all the rest. 

The Koran itself contains nothing specific, in this chapter, which links 

21 The papyri were originally edited by Bell in Der Islam between 1911 andl928, and they are 
included in his publication: Greek Papyri in the BM, IV (The Aphrodito Papyri); see No. 
1366 (of 710); 1403 (the palace of the caliph [aule tou amiralmoumnin] and the mosque in 
Jerusalem [masgida Hierosolymon] are mentioned therein); 1414 (as the previous one); 
1433 (706/7); 1435 (715/6); 1439; 1441 (706); 1451 (701/2 or 716/7). See an analysis of the 
art and mosaics of al-Aqsa: Hamilton, Structural History of the Aqsa Mosque ; Cres well, Early 
Muslim Architecture 2 , 373-380. 


96 



THE RELIGIOUS STATUS OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 103-114] 


the idea of‘the furthermost mosque’ withjerusalem in particular. There is 
no doubt that the identification of the furthermost mosque with the 
mosque at the south of the Temple Mount was born relatively later, after 
the two magnificent buildings were built there. It is interesting that the 
Koran itself, when speaking of Palestine, calls it adna al-ard, the very close 
land, the nearby (xxx:l), and this certainly does not fit in with the placing 
of the furthermost mosque in Jerusalem. A profound study of the de¬ 
velopment of the interpretations of the term al-masjid al-aqsa has been 
written by Guillaume. He points to the fact that this term is to be found in 
an ancient tradition on the pilgrimage journey of Muhammad from Me¬ 
dina to Mecca, in the eighth year of the hijra (when Mecca, of course, was 
already in Muslim control). While passing through al-Ja‘rana (between the 
two cities, some fifteen kilometres from Mecca) ‘he was in the state of 
purification’ (ihram) between ‘the furthermost mosque’ and ‘the nearby 
mosque’; evidently speaking of the two mosques inja'rana. Naturally it is 
impossible to reach solid conclusions on such an obscure subject, and there 
is more than one possible explanation for the birth of the expression ‘the 
furthermost mosque’. In my view, a reasonable assumption would be that 
the expression was already essentially theological on its first appearance, in 
the Koran. It seems to me that it is connected with one of the basic ideas of 
Islam as expressed by Muhammad, namely the idea of the chain of 
prophecy, or successive revelation. Muhammad saw himself, as we 
know, as the last link in a chain, sealing the prophecy. This idea is not 
Muhammad’s invention, and a number of early Christian sects subscribed 
to the idea in their way, for they saw Jesus as the last of the prophets. So did 
the Manichaeans, who saw Mani as the seal of prophecy. The Manichaean 
theology (which had considerable influence on Muhammad’s views; this is 
a subject which should be dealt with separately) connected the idea of the 
last link in the chain of prophecy and divine revelation with the ‘con¬ 
gregation at the very end’ in which the revelation occurs. Saint Nilus, at 
the beginning of the fifth century, ridicules the Manichaeans and accuses 
them of inventing silly stories: epi tes ekklesias tes en te eskhatia (‘on the 
congregation at the furthermost end’). It would appear that this is the fons 
et origo of‘the furthermost mosque’ in the Koran and the meaning of the 
‘night journey’, which was to bring Muhammad into that framework 
(which was the Muslim community, the Arabs) in which the Word of God 
would be revealed to him as it was revealed to the former prophets, his 
predecessors; a revelation which would be final and the last of its kind and 
would occur in ‘the furthermost mosque’, the end of the chain. To an Arab 
traditionist who lived two generations after the erection of the Masjid 
al-Aqsa, Damra b. Rabi'a (died in 817), it was already clear that the isra’ 
was necessarily to Palestine (al-Sham, in his language), for God did 


97 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


not send any prophet but from there, and if he was from some other place, 
he would be brought there during a night journey. Mas‘udi, writing in the 
first half of the tenth century, no longer has any doubt that masjid al-aqsa in 
the Koran is the temple built by Solomon, ‘whose neighbourhood was 
blessed by God’. 22 

[110] The circle of sanctity widened and included the whole of Jerusa¬ 
lem. A rich literature of traditions attributed to the Prophet was created, 
containing praise ofjerusalem, and known as the fada’il al-quds: eulogies of 
Jerusalem. The date when these traditions were first collected is not 
known, but it is not unlikely that it was in approximately the second 
quarter of the eighth century, although the first work known to us dates 
from the beginning of the eleventh century. 23 

[111] The praises for which Jerusalem warranted that every Muslim 
should come and visit it and the Temple Mount, touch on the great value 
of the prayers said in this place. Masjid al-Aqsa is the first of the mosques 
in the world after the ka‘ba mosque in Mecca, and later than it by only 
forty years (the intention is to Solomon’s temple). One prayer in Jerusa¬ 
lem is worth five-hundred times more than in any other place (and there 
are other estimations). One should note that all of Palestine merits praise. 
In the Koran it is called al-ard al-muqaddasa (v:24), the sanctified land. The 
Koran was ‘handed down’ (by God) in three places, said the Prophet: in 

22 There is a verb in Arabic which means ‘to travel by night’; its root is sry, and the word isra’, 
nightjourney, derives from it. See Guillaume, Andalus , 18:323,1953. In the samearticle he 
also quotes traditions which assert that the mi'rdj, the ascension to heaven, took place in 
Mecca on the roof of the Prophet’s house and not in Jerusalem. The tradition on Ja'rana, 
see: WaqidI, 858f; Samhudi, II, 184. According to another tradition the location of the 
mi'rdj was Kufa; see al-Buraql, 68. See on the subject of the chain of prophecy: Friedlander, 
JQR, NS 3(1912/3), 246-254; Andrae, 98; Buhl, 212f; on the claims of Mani that he is the 
seal: Blrunl, 207; and see also Polotski, PW, Suppl. VI, 266f. The letter of Nilus: MPG 79, 
357. Damra ibn Rabl'a: Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 154 (quoted also in Goitein, BJPES, 12 [1945/6], 
124, n.43); Hirschberg, Rocznik Orient., 17(1951/2), 341; see Mas‘udl, Muriij, I, 111. On 
Ja‘rana see also ZarkashI, A'lam, 63, 180; Caskel, Felsendom, 19f, challenges the views of 
Guillaume and of others who agree with him, and claims that the furthermost mosque in 
the Koran meantjerusalem from the very outset. See the comprehensive discussion on the 
various Muslim traditions relating to the furthermost mosque: Kister, Le Museon, 82:173, 
1969. According to the diary ofal-Hasan b. Ahmad al-Banna’, ofBaghdad (in the eleventh 
century), the followers of Abu Hanlfa in Baghdad (in 1069) claimed that the three holy 
places (to which they go on pilgrimages and religious visits), are Mecca, Medina and ‘that 
place’, meaning the grave of Abu Hanlfa. The Hanballs shouted at them: ‘You have 
forgotten that there is a place in the world called Jerusalem!' See al-Banna’, 290, and the 
translation, 302. See a general discussion on the matter of the sanctity ofjerusalem to 
Islam, in the article of Lazarus-Yafeh, Herzog Jubilee Volume, 117. 

23 See a general survey of this literature of fada’il al-quds: Sivan, IOS, 1:263, 1971, and see 
there additional references. The manuscript of Abu Bakr Muhammad b. Ahmad al-Wasitl 
was edited by I. Hasson, Jerusalem, 1979. Two other treatises written before the Crusades 
are of al-Musharraf b. al-Murajjja ibn Ibrahim al-MaqdisI (mid-eleventh century), and of 
his pupil, Abu’l-Qasim MakkI b. ‘Abd al-Salam al-Rumayll al-MaqdisI, which was not 
completed (see on these personalities below). 


98 



THE RELIGIOUS STATUS OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 103-114] 


Mecca, Medina and in al-Sham, and one of the traditionists adds: that is to 
say, in Jerusalem. Jerusalem is the locale of Abraham, Lot, Jesus; it is one 
of the places in which God permitted the creation of buildings for His 
name to be mentioned. From there, He liftedjesus to heaven and it is there 
that he will be put down again. At the End of the Days, all the mosques in 
the world (including the ka‘ba) will gather together and come to Jerusa¬ 
lem. ‘The rock’ in Jerusalem is the place where one will blow the trumpet 
on the day of the resurrection of the dead, just as it was the first place to 
appear above the water after the flood; it is the place closest to heaven. The 
dajjal and other apocalyptic creatures have no access to the rock. Adam, 
Isaac, Abraham (in this order!) commanded that they be buried there, and 
for that purpose, Jacob and also Joseph were brought there. In Jerusalem 
people would be separated in terms of those who were to go to Paradise 
and those who were to go to the fires of Hell. It is interesting that most of 
these traditions are conveyed in the name of Muqatil b. Sulayman, a native 
of Khurasan (Balkh) who lived in Basra and Baghdad. It is said that he 
incorporated into his commentaries on the Koran many Jewish and Chris¬ 
tian traditions. He died in 767, and was therefore living at about the time 
the two mosques were being built on the Temple Mount. 

There is also another passage of the Koran which according to its 
commentary recalls Jerusalem, in the surat al-tln (‘the chapter of the figs’), 
xc:l: [God swears by] ‘the figs, the olives, the Mount SinTn, and this the 
secure city’. It is said that ‘olives’ is an appellation for Jerusalem. 24 

[112] A tradition attributed to Muhammad b. Ka‘b, one of the offspring 

24 Shibll, Wasa’il, 25a-34b. See in ZarkashI, I'lam , 286, a collection of traditions on the value 
of prayers injerusalem. A man who performs his needs should not do so in the direction of 
Mecca nor in the direction of the sakhra (a tradition attributed to the Prophet, ibid. , 293). 
‘Ajlunl, II, 282: he who dies injerusalem, it is as if he died in heaven. The value of the 
prayer injerusalem: ibid. , I, 291; see a similar collection of hadiths in Nuwayri, I, 325-339; 
praises of the holy land; of al-masjid al-Aqsa; ofjerusalem; of the religious visits ( ziyara ) 
there; of prayers said there; of the houses, ofthe sojourn and the passing away injerusalem; 
the graves of the Prophets, mihrab Da’ud, the Silwan (Siloam) spring; the traditions on the 
ascent of the Prophet from Jerusalem to heaven, etc. The number of prayers injerusalem 
and their relative value according to the fada’il literature has its parallel in ancient Eastern 
Christianity: to visit seven times the Qartamln monastery is like going to Jerusalem; see 
Voobus, History of Asceticism , II, 319. ‘ Aziz!, Ill, 343: The advantage of visiting Jerusalem 
before the pilgrimage to Mecca; ibid. ,388: the Prophet said: Whosoever does not come to 
Jerusalem to pray, should send there oil for lighting. Subkl, Shija, 49, complains (middle 
of the fourteenth century) that few come to Jerusalem, although its praises are famous and 
prayers there are doubly valued. ‘The descent’ of the Koran in three places: Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 
154, and see the supplementary fragment in the old edition (Badran), I, 36 (omitted by the 
editor of the new edition, al-Munajjid). IbnSa‘d, 1(1), 107; the Temple Mount is the site of 
Jacob’s dream, see: al-Maqdisi, Bad’, IV, 87; and see the collection of traditions in Yaqut, 
Buldan, IV, 591 f; and the treatise of Ibn al-Firkah, Bd'ith al-nujus (which also contains a 
collection of praises ofjerusalem). Muqatil b. Sulayman, see: Ibn Hajar, Tahdhtb, X, 
279-285, cf. Sezgin, I, 36f. Surat al-ttn: see Ibn al-jawzl, Mawdu'at, I, 249; Silafi, Fadd’il, 
113; Ibn Babawayh, Ma'drti, 350 (this Shiite writer gives Jerusalem the honour of being 


99 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


of the Banu Qurayza, of thejews ofMedina, tells that God promisedjacob 
that some of his descendants would become kings and prophets until He 
would send the haramt Prophet (that is, from the haratn, or Mecca), who 
will be the last of the prophets (the seal), whose people would build the 
sanctuary ( haykal ) of bayt al-maqdis ; hence the building of the mosque on 
the Temple Mount is the realisation of the word of God. 

It appears that during subsequent generations, a special feeling of rever¬ 
ence developed among the Muslims in Jerusalem, as described by one of 
the city’s inhabitants, Muqaddasi, at the end of the tenth century: ‘You 
have no more honourable than the people of Jerusalem, because it has no 
breach and no outcry. They do not drink wine in public, there is no 
drunkenness, it has no house of abomination, either hidden or apparent, 
and its people are God-fearing and honest. And there was once an amir [a 
governor of the city] about whom rumour had it that he used to drink; so 
the people broke into his house and dispersed those who were assembled 
there. ’ 

The ideas of sanctity were extended, apparently towards the end of the 
Umayyad period, to other parts of Palestine as well. First was Hebron, the 
site of the graves of the patriarchs, and primarily the city of Abraham and 
his place of prayer — Masjid Khalil Allah, for Abraham was called a friend 
(, khaltt) in Muslim tradition (as in the Jewish tradition, ‘the seed of Abra¬ 
ham, thy friend’ [2 Ch., xx:7], ‘the seed of Abraham my friend’, [Is., 
xli:2], and also in the Talmuds and Midrash), and hence the name of the 
city among the Arabs, ( madinat) al-Khalll, the city of the friend. Eventu¬ 
ally other traditions developed, such as the one saying that Adam, who 
was also a prophet according to Islamic tradition, he, too, is buried in 
Hebron, as arejoseph and another forty anonymous saints. According to 
some traditions, the Prophet alighted in Hebron during his night journey 
from Mecca to Jerusalem - there even was a shoe of the Prophet kept in the 
mosque at Hebron. 25 

‘the olives’; but Mount Sinln, which the traditions generally say is Mount Sinai, he 
interprets as: Kufa; Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 205f. See a collection of praises of Palestine also in 
Shazari, 26ff; Suhayll, Ta‘rif 10a: ‘the sanctified land’ (in the Koran) is Jerusalem and its 
environs; the qibla: Muqaddasi, Aqaltm, 151. Muqaddasi is proud of the fact that al-Sham 
was the first qibla. 

25 Muqaddasi, Aqalim, 7; ibid., 34, again notes that Jerusalem is the place worthy of God¬ 
fearing people. On the graves of the patriarchs, see the traditions in Tadmuri, 65 (in the 
name ofMuqatil ibn Sulayman, see the previous footnote). Despite his doubts, he arrives 
at the conclusion that one has to believe that Abraham and the other patriarchs are buried 
there, as tradition ( naql) states. According to him, ibid ., 61a, the first to be buried there was 
Yarid (that is, Jared); he also tells the story of Ephron the Hittite, and a story from the time 
of al-Radl, the Abbasid caliph (934—940), on the discovery of a Greek inscription on 
Rachel’s tomb containing details of the graves in the cave, whose each one was, see 63b, 
and in the Matthews edition: 181f; according to him one had to use the services of one of 
the elders of Halab, the only one who was able to read the inscription. See also Ibn 


IOO 



THE RELIGIOUS STATUS OF JERUSALEM (SECS. 103-114] 


[113] Ascalon also won a certain aura of sanctity by a tradition ascribed 
to the prophet, according to which it was one of the two bridal cities 
(i al-'arusayn ), the second being Damascus (though some say Gaza). It is said 
that the Prophet promised Ascalon that it would enjoy peace and pros¬ 
perity throughout the rule of Islam. It was allotted a special role in the 
resurrection of the dead: 70,000 people would rise up again there who 
would have to give no account of their deeds. Jericho is also mentioned in 
the hadlth literature. The traditions interpret the saying in the Koran 
‘Enter this city’ - so the Children of Israel were ordered; surat al-baqara (the 
chapter of the cow) ii:55, as having been aimed at Jericho, though most of 
the interpreters say it was Jerusalem, and others say it was Bet Shean. A 
hadlth conveyed in the name of Ka‘b al-Ahbar says that whoever wishes 
to earn his livelihood and be well-off and God-fearing, should settle 
in Bet Shean. Its dates are mentioned in the hadlth attributed to Tamlm 
al-Dari; it is said of the place that it is the ‘tongue’ of the country. Its 
spring, ‘Ayn al-fulus, comes from Paradise and is one of the two springs 
mentioned in swat al-Rahman (lv:50); the other is the Siloam spring 
(Silwan). 26 

[114] This process of lending special godliness to certain locations is well 
known in the Islamic world. There is an extensive literature of fada’il 
(praises) containing traditions, generally ascribed to the Prophet, concern¬ 
ing the special holy qualities of certain places. With regard to Palestine, we 
can follow an interesting course of development, from the denial of the 
sanctity of the sakhra (the rock) and of Jerusalem to the bestowing of 
special sanctity upon them. It is quite possible to envision the stages of this 
process as well as its principal motivations. Without going so far as to deny 
the primacy of Mecca and the ka'ba and of Medina, a religious aura 


al-Faqlh, 101; Subki, Shija’, 111: the Prophet descended during the isra’ also near Abra¬ 
ham’s grave, and also near Jesus’ grave (in Bethlehem!); ibid., 106, he vigorously defends 
the custom of visiting the grave of Abraham and those of the other prophets in Palestine. 
On the shoe of the Prophet see also: Dozy, Vetements, 421ff; according to one tradition the 
shoe was found in Damascus, together with the original version of the Koran from the 
days of‘Uthman (Goldziher, Muhammedanische Studien, H, 362f; Mez, 327). See also the 
article al-Khalil (by M. Sharon) in EP, who has more references. In ‘Ulaymi, 64f, it is said 
about Ibrahim ibn Ahmad al-Khalanji (perhaps a relative of Muhammad b. ‘All al- 
Khalanji, see below) apparently the appointee over Palestine on behalf of the Abbasids, 
that the concubine (jariya) of the caliph al-Muqtadir (908-932) requested of him, during 
her stay in Jerusalem, to look after Joseph’s grave; he went there with a number of 
workers, and they dug until they uncovered Joseph, and arranged his grave alongside 
those of the other patriarchs, behind Solomon’s courtyard(?), opposite Jacob’s grave; see 
the English translation of this fragment in Le Strange, Palestine, 325, 

26 See the tradition on the ‘ariisayn in ‘AzizI, II, 313; Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 86; Yaqut, Bulddn, III, 674; 
c£: Gruber, 61; and the article ‘Askalan (by R. Hartmann) in EP. Jericho: Mawsili, 
Nihaya, 53a; Suhayll, Ta'nf, 3b. Bet Shean: Ibn‘Asakir, I, 211; 11(1), 125; see also: Sam'anI, 
II, 396; ‘Imad al-DIn, Tadhkira, 46: Bet Shean is one of the places in which there are abdal 


IOI 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


emerged around Jerusalem and Palestine during the second half of the 
Umayyad era, to be distinguished from the period of conquest and the first 
generations thereafter. This aura of sanctity was the direct consequence 
of the great building enterprise of‘Abd al-Malik and his sons, who turned 
the Temple Mount into a centre of attraction to visitors from all over 
the Muslim world. It is interesting to note that there was an awareness 
of this change among the Muslims of the Middle Ages, the clearest 
reflection being the antagonistic and disrespectful remarks openly ex¬ 
pressed by more than one of the Muslim men of letters about the process of 
sanctification, in which they saw a dangerous innovation and perversion 
from the true creed. Reservations of this kind could also be found in the 
description, mentioned above, contained in some Muslim chronicles of 
‘Abd al-Malik’s decision to build the Dome of the Rock, as if it sprang 
from a wicked desire to deny the sanctity of Mecca. Ya‘qubl makes some 
very explicit comments on the subject, which he attributes to ‘Abd 
al-Malik ‘. . . the mosque in Jersualem will take the place for you of the 
ka‘ba mosque, and this rock, which according to the tradition the Prophet 
put his foot on as he was ascending to heaven, will take the place of the 
ka‘ba’ (a stone for a stone!). Further on he adds that therefore ‘Abd 
al-Malik built a dome over the rock, hung silk curtains therein, placed 
servants there and demanded that people encircle it (carry out the tawaf) 
just as they encircle the ka‘ba. 

Refuting the holiness of the sakhra evidently continued for a long time. 
Even after the Dome of the Rock was already standing on its site, we find 
that one of the greatest scholars of al-Sham in the middle of the eighth 
century, ‘Abd al-Rahman b. ‘Umar al-Awza‘I, used to pray in Jerusalem 
with his back to the sakhra. True, everyone praying in the al-Aqsa mosque 
has his back to the sakhra , which is to the north, as he is facing southward 
to Mecca. But the fact that this has been recorded is evidence that this was a 
demonstrative act. Unfortunately it is impossible to determine whether 
this happened after the Abbasid revolution or earlier, during the days of 
Umayyad rule. 

Ibn Taymiyya, writing in about 1300, argues that it is impossible to 
perform the tawaf around the rock injerusalem, and that it is unacceptable 
to turn the rock into a qibla due to the presence of a naskh (uprooting, that 
is, the heavenly command to change the former rite of facingjerusalem to 
that of facing Mecca). He even provides evidence from the act of‘Umar, 
who refused to take advice to build the mosque to the north of the rock, 

(something like the ‘lamed-waw’, the thirty-six Jewish righteous; in Bet Shean there are 

two, and some say four). 


102 



THE RELIGIOUS STATUS OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 103-114] 


and built it to the south in order that the Muslim facing Mecca would stand 
with his back to th e sakhra. This whole matter of the sanctity of the sakhra 
began, according to him, from the period of ‘Abd al-Malik’s war with the 
Zubayrids, when he wished to divert the attention of the Muslims from 
Mecca and attract them to the ziyara (visiting of holy places) injerusalem. 
All the alleged traditions, he writes, dealing as it were with the footsteps of 
the Prophet or the cradle of‘Isa (Jesus), are merely deceptions. The only 
place fit to pray injerusalem is the mosque of‘Umar (that is, al-Aqsa); and 
he stresses in particular the ban on visiting Christian churches, such as the 
Church of the Holy Sepulchre (al-qumama - ‘of the refuse’) and churches 
in Bethlehem, Mount Zion and elsewhere. Ibn Qayyim al-Jawziyya, 
shortly after Ibn Taymiyya, also denies absolutely the holiness of 
the sakhra. All the traditions about it, he states, are lies and inventions. 
The sakhra is merely the qibla of the Jews, and to them, its status as a place 
is like the status of the sabbath with regard to time. Among the learned 
Muslims in the Middle Ages, there was cognisance of the fact that the 
extensive publicising of the traditions about the sanctity of Jerusalem 
could be ascribed to the war with the Crusaders, when the whole 
Muslim world was trying to awaken the sympathies of people towards 
Jerusalem. 

Opposition to the idea of the sanctity of Ascalon or Hebron is also to be 
found in the writings of these two learned men. Another scholar, Ibn 
al-jawzl, decided that all the traditions ascribed to the Prophet and which 
speak in praise of Ascalon were false. The famous cadi and writer ‘Iyad, 
who lived during the first half of the twelfth century, claims that none of 
the sahaba (the Muslims contemporaries of the Prophet), nor anyone of the 
subsequent generations, either before or after the conquest of Palestine, 
would customarily perform the ziyara of Abraham’s grave nor of any 
other prophet’s grave in Palestine. Ibn Taymiyya also looks back at the 
first generations and points out that nothing of the kind existed; that there 
was no precedent for praying over graves or building mosques over them. 
Abraham’s grave, he writes, was closed and enclosed and it would not 
have occurred to anyone to pray there, and whoever came to Jerusalem 
would pray in the al-Aqsa mosque and return to his home without visiting 
the magharat al-khalit (‘the cave of Abraham’, i.e., of the patriarchs). Only 
with the Crusaders’ domination of the cave, Ibn Taymiyya adds, was the 
gate opened and the place turned into a church, and when the Muslims 
recaptured the place, some of them turned it into a mosque, but the 
scholars ( ahl al-‘ilm ) deny this, and all the traditions that tell of the Prophet 
descending during the isra’ (the night journey) on any other place than the 
al-Aqsa mosque are fake. However, reliable sources from the tenth and 


103 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


eleventh centuries give evidence of the fact that Hebron attracted Muslim 
visitors even before the Crusaders’ period. 27 


The achievements of the Umayyads 

[115] We have already found that there was a special relationship be¬ 
tween the Umayyads and Palestine, and that the tribes of Palestine were an 
important foundation of Umayyad power and the governmental system it 
established. Shreds of information that were preserved in the chronicles 
speak of caliphs and their families visiting Jerusalem and other places in 
Palestine. Yazld II, son of‘Abd al-Malik, lived in Irbid in Trans-Jordan 
(Arab sources: in the Balqa’) at the end of his days and died there in January 
724. His predecessor, Sulayman b. ‘Abd al-Malik, was very attached to 
Palestine. When he was proclaimed caliph, he was staying in Palestine and 
delegations came to Jerusalem to pledge their loyalty (to convey the bay‘a). 
Before he became caliph, while still governor ofjund Filastln, he would sit 
in one of the domed buildings on the Temple Mount, near the sakhra, and 
there he would receive people in audience and there his orders would be 
written. When he became caliph, he had it in mind to make Jerusalem his 
official seat. 28 

[116] Sulayman b. ‘Abd al-Malik is also the caliph to whom the building 
of Ramla is attributed. Apparently, the building of the town started before 
he became caliph, for it is said that at the time of the death of his brother, 

27 Ya'qubI, Ta’rlkh, II, 311; on al-Awza‘I see: ‘Ulaymi, 259; Ibn Khallikan, III, 127ff(he was 
an inhabitant of Beirut); see the article al-Awza‘I (by J. Schacht) in EP, which has more 
sources about him. Al-Awza‘1 is also mentioned in a Samaritan chronicle: “Eved ha- 
rahum [the slave of the Merciful i.e., ‘Abd al-Rahman] ha-Waza‘I[!], the judge of Da¬ 
mascus, who lived in Beirut’, etc. see in Adler et Seligsohn, REJ, 45(1902), 244. Ibn 
Taymiyya, Majmu'a, II, 61ff; cf. Kister, Le Museoti, 82(1969), 195f. Ibn Qayyim al- 
Jawziyya, al-Manar , 86-91; ibid., 99, he adds something to the list of aberrations from the 
right customs of the proper Islam: the prayer in mid-month Sha'ban is an innovation 
introduced after the year 400 (that is, in the eleventh century); it was introduced in 
Jerusalem; this is confirmed by MuqaddasI, Aqdltm, 183, who counts among the things for 
which Jerusalem excels the night which ends the reading of the Koran in the al-Aqsa 
mosque and ‘also the night of the middle of Sha'ban in Iliya’; ZarqashI, I'ldm , 296, quotes a 
hadlth ascribed to the Prophet, which links the hajj to Mecca with the ziyara and notes: 
‘some say they only have heard about this hadlth after the victory of the Sultan Salah 
al-DIn (that is, after Jerusalem was reconquered from the Crusaders); ZarqashI recalls in 
contrast to this another hadlth in favour of the ziyara to Jerusalem, in the name of 
Musharraf ibn Murajja, of the generation before the Crusaders conquest. See what Ibn 
al-jawzl has to say on the traditions about Ascalon: Mawdu'at, II, 52ff; the opinion of‘Iyad, 
see: Subki, Shifi’, 106 (who argues with him and speaks in favour of this ziyara); see Ibn 
Taymiyya, Tafsir, 167; similarly also Ibn Qayyim al-Jawziyya, al-Manar, 94. For sources 
on religious visits to Hebron, see chapter 3, note 80. 

28 Yazld: Mas'udI, Muriij , V, 446; Ibn aI-‘AdIm, Zubda, I, 47; Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, IX, 231; 
Sulayman: MaqdisI, A'fHtfti'r(Khalidl), 45; ‘Ulaymi, 249; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, V, 11. ‘Umar 
II ibn ‘Abd al-‘AzIz acted in the same way, and was sitting on the Temple Mount, see Ibn 
‘Abd Rabbihi, ‘Iqd, IV, 434. 


104 



THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE UMAYYADS [SECS. 115-121] 

the caliph al-Walld (on 24 February 715), Sulayman was in Ramla. The 
city achieved quite a reputation in the Muslim world. According to Koran 
commentators, it is possible that ‘the hill that was a haven and has a 
spring’, to which God brought Mary andjesus (surat al-mu’minm, xxiii:52) 
was Ramla. It is interesting that the Muslim traditions on the conquest of 
Palestine sometimes mention Ramla, although the city was not founded 
until some three generations later. Possibly this is the result of some 
confusion in defining dates or in the use of the name Ramla instead of 
Filastin (for Ramla was the capital of jund Filastin); but it is also possible 
that a town called Ramla (by the Arabs) actually existed near Lod before 
the Muslim era. It is perhaps the holti ha-mehoz ( hoi meaning sand, like 
Arabic rami), mentioned in the Tosejia, ‘Arakhln, ii:8. A Christian chron¬ 
icle which describes the renovation of the Christian churches after the 
Persians devastated them tells that the monk Modestus, who collected 
money for the renovations, also went down to Ramla to obtain money. 
From the Muslim traditions, it evolves that the Muslims did not maintain 
regional administrative institutions in Caesarea, which was formerly capi¬ 
tal of Palaestina prima, evidently out of fear of Byzantine attacks from the 
sea. The tradition I have mentioned earlier on the stay of Sulayman b. 
‘Abd al-Malik, when he was governor of jund Filastin, on the Temple 
Mount, teaches us that the affairs of the region were at first handled in 
Jerusalem. However, it seems that the genuinely non-Muslim surround¬ 
ings were not congenial to the Muslims; on the other hand, they undoubt¬ 
edly wished to dominate the coastal roads, and when they realised that Lod 
was also not suitable as capital of the region, again because of the non- 
Muslim population, it was decided to lay the foundations of (or develop) 
Ramla. 

The building of the city began with its fortress. Afterwards they erected 
a building known by the name of dar al-sabbaghtn (the house of the dyers, 
and the meaning here is: textile dyers) which also contained a pool. They 
also built a canal known as barada (‘middle of the eye’?) and also dug wells 
for drinking water. Then they built a mosque there and at the same time, 
permitted anyone who wished to do so, to build himself a house. Sulay¬ 
man b. ‘Abd al-Malik, who was then governor of jund Filastin, as afore¬ 
mentioned, appointed one of his officials, a Christian whose name was 
al-Bitriq b. Naka, or Bakar, to supervise the building work. Until about 
840 the Umayyad caliphs, and after them the Abbasids, maintained the 
wells and canals at their own expense, until the Abbasid caliph al- 
Mu'tasim (833-842) transferred this responsibility to the governors of the 
province. 

The founding of Ramla led to the decline ofLod, for Sulayman began to 
destroy Lod and forced its people to move to Ramla in its place. Those 


105 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


who refused were punished and prevented from receiving supplies. One 
chronicle reveals the reason for this; it was an act of revenge for the people 
of Lod refused to permit his adviser, Ibn Bitriq, to build himself a house 
(meaning, probably: an administrative building) on land which was the 
property of the church of St George. Sulayman also considered transfer¬ 
ring the pillars of the church from Lod to Ramla, for the building of the 
mosque, but the patriarch appeased him. With the help of the Byzantines, 
Sulayman was induced to use pillars in building the mosque in Ramla, 
which were specially hewn for this purpose in the same cave in al-Dirum 
from which the pillars in Lod were hewn, and this was a secret cave known 
only to the Byzantines. 

Muqaddasi writes, towards the end of the tenth century, that Ramla 
could be considered one of the best of the cities of Islam, if it were not for 
the quality of its water, which was poor owing to the saltiness of the 
wells. He also points out its central position for commerce, due to its 
proximity to both the Mediterranean and the Red Sea, and to its connec¬ 
tion to them by adequate roads. According to him, Ramla served as a 
warehouse for the Egyptians, and the sources state further that the city was 
a ribat, like other seaports along the coast of Palestine, that is, a military 
base for units in a state of permanent readiness. 

In May 789, during the days of the Abbasid caliph Harun al-Rashid, a 
pool was built in Ramla which exists until this very day, known particu¬ 
larly for its very unusual pointed arches. The ancient residential section of 
the city was apparently built around the mosque, known as the ‘white 
mosque’. Many central figures in the political life of the Muslim world 
chose to live in Ramla, especially at the time when Palestine became 
subject to Egypt; that is, in the ninth century. 

The building of Ramla created a new administrative centre. It became 
the capital of jund Filastin and actually the most important city in Pal¬ 
estine. One can assume that the Jews of Lod moved to Ramla, as did the 
rest of the population, and they formed the basis for the relatively large 
Jewish population living in Ramla afterwards, according to the sources 
from the eleventh century. 29 

29 Sa'id ibn Bitriq, I, 217 (Modestus in Ramla); ‘Azizi, II, 323: some say that the hill (in the 
Koran) is Ramla, some say Damascus, some Fustat; Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 200f: some say it is 
Ramla and some say it is Jerusalem. Tabari, Ta’rikh , I, 2399: 'Amr sends an army (during 
the conquest) against Ramla, under the command ofal-Tadhariq; ibid., II, 1281: on the day 
of al-Walid’s death loyalty to Sulayman ibn ‘Abd al-Malik was sworn, and he was then in 
Ramla (Saturday, the 24th of February, 715). See in: Ya'qubi, Ta’rikh, II, 351; Baladhuri, 
Futuh, 143; Ibn al-Faqih, 102; Shazarl, 29a, the traditions on the building of Ramla and the 
ruin of Lod. Dimashqi, 201: in the long run, Ramla was destroyed by earthquakes while 
Lod was rebuilt. Yaqut, Buldan, II, 817ff, mentions alongside the traditions on the 
building of Ramla, the reason for Sulayman’s anger with the people of Lod; he also has the 
name of the one who refused to hand over the land he wanted: Ibn al-Bitriq. JahshiyarS, 48: 



THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE UMAYYADS [SECS. 115-121] 


[117] Fragmentary information, of considerable importance however, 
informs us that the Umayyads took pains to reclaim the ruins of the 
country and persevered in its settlement and development enterprises, in 
addition to the aforementioned construction works on the Temple Mount 
and Ramla. An impressive remnant from the days of their reign is Khirbat 
Mafjar near Jericho, a splendid unfinished palace attributed to the caliph 
Hisham ibn ‘Abd al-Malik (724—743), though it is impossible to pinpoint 
with any certainty the identity of the builder. 

The Umayyads invested great efforts in developing a Muslim fleet and 
in renovating seaports in Palestine and Syria. Restoration and fortification 
works were carried out in Tyre, Acre, Caesarea, Jaffa and Ascalon. Arab 
army units were garrisoned at these ports. Mu‘awiya stationed carpenters 
and artisans and set up shipyards in the coastal towns. Acre became the 
chief naval base in his day and it was from here that the army set out in 647 
to conquer Cyprus. Acre was also the site of the shipyard of the jund 
Urdunn but during ‘Abd al-Malik’s time, the shipyard was transferred to 
Tyre, which then became the major naval base. Mu'awiya also adopted a 
policy of settlement in the ports. In the year AD 662/3, he moved Persian 
army units who had come over to the Muslim camp during the conquest 
of Persia and who were stationed in Ba'labakk, in Hims and in Antioch, to 
the seaports of jund Urdunn: Tyre, Acre and others. The Umayyads 
viewed the coastal cities as amsar (singular mtsr) that is, fortified frontier 
towns; their collective appellation was al-sawdhil (from sahil meaning 
coast), and their inhabitants enjoyed special privileges, such as granting 
rights to the tribes and individuals settled there to collect taxes. The 
fortified towns along the coast and other vital places were called rawabit or 
ribatat (singular: ribat), and the army units stationed there were called 
murabata, from a root meaning to bind, an expression for permanent 

it was Ibn Bitriq who asked for the land for himself and was refused, and then advised 
Sulayman to build Ramla; and see there also the story of the pillars. See also: Ibn Taghri 
BardI, I, 240; Futuh (ascribed to Waqidi), 6, and there the information that Ramla already 
existed in the days of the Children of Israel. See on the antiquity of Ramla, Ish-Shalom, 
Hafirot, 195ff. Muqaddasi, Aqaltm, 36, 164f, describes Ramla. He mentions some of its 
streets (dumb): Bi’r al-‘askar (the well of the army), and ttuisjid ‘atiaba and also roads leading 
to Jerusalem, to Lod, tojaffa, to Fustat, and to Dajun, and called by their names. See also: 
Sam‘ani, VI, 169. On the white mosque and the supposed residential quarter see: Rosen- 
Ayalon, IEJ , 26(1976), 119; on the pool of Ramla: Creswell, Short Account, 228ff. He 
quotes the inscription saying that the pool was built in Dhu’l-hijja 172 (May 789), that is, 
in the days of Harun al-Rashid. According to him, what makes it singular is the great 
number of sharply pointed arches, the most ancient known to us. See also El‘ad, Cathedra, 
8(1977/8), 165 and n. 64; the conjecture on the Jews moving from Lod to Ramla, see: 
Assaf, Meqdrdt, 10; a Samaritan chronicle, the Toltda, points out that Ramla was anew city: 
‘in his days (of the great priest ‘Aqbun) a new city was built, called al-Ramla’. See 
Neubauer, Chronique samaritaine, 23. As to the date in this chronicle: the earlier date it 
mentions is 634. Afterwards it counts terms of priesthood which amount to 155 years, that 
is, the building of Ramla should have been in 789, which makes no sense. 


107 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


readiness. We know that the Muslims launched raids on Byzantine areas, 
and it appears that these seaports served as their departure points. Less is 
known about the Byzantines’ contra-raids, though undoubtedly they 
happened quite often, an example being the aforementioned occurring 
during the insurrection of the Zubayrids. Palestine advanced in the de¬ 
velopment of its seaports and ship-building compared with the state of 
these matters during the Byzantine period, when Alexandria was evi¬ 
dently the major supplier to the empire’s navy. According to a tradition 
in Baladhuri, there was a sina'a (ship-yard) only in Egypt, until the year 
AH 49 or AD 669. Then Mu'awiya ordered the artisans (ship-builders) 
and carpenters to be assembled and have them placed in the sea-ports. 30 

[118] As Palestine was close to the centre of government, it appears that 
the Umayyads were accustomed to using it as a place of exile for tribes and 
leaders who caused them trouble in other parts of the caliphate, particu¬ 
larly in Iraq. It is said that Mu’awiya purged Kufa of ‘All’s supporters, 
including Qa‘qa‘ b. ‘Amr b. Malik, of the Banu Tamlrn, one of the heroes 
of the war against the Persians who participated alongside ‘All in the 
‘Battle of the Camel’ and who was exiled to Jerusalem. The transfer of the 
Jews, who were then considered loyal, was undoubtedly a similar course 
of action, and they were encouraged to settle in Tripoli on the Syrian 
coast. 31 

[119] We learn of the Umayyads’ concern for the agriculture of the 
country from the canal they dug in jund Urdunn. No details are available 
concerning the canal or its site, except that it was in the north. It was 
excavated in the days of Walld II, in around 743, as is evinced in Tabari. 
Tabari quotes a witness of Walld’s last hours before he was killed; al- 
Muthanna b. Mu'awiya tells: ‘. . . I came to al-Walld; I came in through 
the back entrance of the tent-camp. He ordered a meal and it was brought 
to him . . . Then he addressed someone who sat alongside him and spoke 
to him, but I could not hear what he said. I asked the man sitting between 
us what they had spoken of, and he said he was enquiring about the water 


30 See a summarising review of Khirbat al-Mafjar: Hamilton, Khirbet al-Majjar. The author 
assumes that the palace was built by the caliph Walld ibn Yazld (February 743-April 744), 
but tribal wars and inner dissension prevented its completion. See: Baramki, QDAP, 
5:132, 1936; 8:51, 1939; Schwabe, QDAP, 12:20, 1946, Baramki describes in his article 
(the second) an Arabic inscription written by ‘Abdallah b. ‘Umar for the caliph Hisham; 
Schwabe describes ten inscriptions he found in the digs there, and which include many 
Greek names, among them that of Theophilos, who in his opinion may have been a Jew (a 
name mentioned also in the Ahima‘as Scroll), but of course this is only a conjecture. See on 
the building works of the Umayyads also: Strika, Rendiconti, ser. 8, 23:69, 1968, and the 
bibliography therein, especially on p. 69, no. 1. On the ports and the transfer of the 
Persians: Baladhuri, Futiih, 117f, 126ff, 143f. See also: Fahmy, 52ff; Eickhoff, 130; ETad, 
Cathedra, 8(1977/8), 156-163. 

31 The purge of Kufa: Tabari, Ta'rtkh, 1, 1960. On Qa‘qa‘ see: lbn al-Athir, Usd, IV, 207. 

I08 



THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE UMAYYADS [SECS. 115-121] 


canal he is digging in Urdunn, to know how much still had to be excavated 
there’. The ‘Mysteries of Rabbi Shimon Bar Yohai’ speak of. a great 
king who will rule for nineteen years [undoubtedly ‘Abd al-Malik] . . . 
who will plant orchards and rebuild ruined cities [the coastal towns 
mentioned above] and will dig ditches for waterways to irrigate his 
plantations’, and further, ‘another king will make way for the water of the 
Jordan and bring workers from afar to dig and make conduits for the water 
of the Jordan and irrigate the land and the earth they have dug will fall 
upon them and kill them; and their chiefs, when they heard of it, will come 
to the king and kill him . . .’ Walid was indeed killed by Yazid, who 
became caliph in his stead. The reason given by the midrash for Walid’s 
murder is interesting — suggesting that it was due to the catastrophe that 
occurred during the digging. As Braslavi has shown, it is possible that 
there is a hint of this in Yazid’s sermon after he became caliph, in which he 
promised that he would be thrifty with the state’s money and refrain from 
waste and disparity in the distribution of allowances to the tribes; he also 
pledged not to continue with building projects or the digging of canals. 32 

[120] That the Umayyads were responsible for the renovation and 
improvement of the roads in Palestine one can see from some milestones 
that have been discovered to date which bear the name of Caliph ‘Abd 
al-Malik. Two were found in the neighbourhood of Abu Ghosh and Bab 
al-Wad; on one the distance of seven miles from Jerusalem was inscribed, 
and on the other, eight miles. A third stone, discovered in Koziba in the 
Judaean hills, indicated the distance from Damascus (although only the 
number 100 was preserved). The stones are of white marble, 39 X 57 
centimetres. A fourth stone was found in the Sea of Galilee, near Semah, 
and it commemorates the paving of the road in the pass of Afeq, in the days 
of ‘Abd al-Malik, under the supervision of Yahya b. al-Hakam (the 
caliph’s uncle, brother of Marwan). 33 

[121] During the reign of the Umayyads, the Muslims began to mint 


32 Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 1803, 1834;lbnal-Athir, Kamil, V, 292;Jellinek, Bet ha-midrash, 111,79, 
see Graetz (Hebrew), III, 436; Steinschneider, ZDMG, 28(1874), 638; Graetz and Stem- 
schneider did not know the passage in Tabari. The connection between what is said in the 
‘Mysteries of Rabbi Shimon Bar Yohai' and the passage in Tabari was first noted by 
Braslavi: Braslavski, JPOS, 13:97, 1933. See the Hebrew version: Braslavi, Le-heqer, 53ff; 
contrary to Braslavi’s opinion (following Graetz), there is nothing in the ‘Mysteries’ that 
can serve as proof for the time of its writer, for all those details could have been found in 
the Arabic chronicles; the bitterness against Walid was not necessarily born out of the 
caving-in of the trench, as Braslavi believed, but was caused by his policy towards the 
tribes and his prodigality on building projects; and not as Braslavi would have it, the 
nesi’im in the ‘Mysteries’ were not the Umayyad leaders but the heads of the YamanI 
(Kalb) tribes which joined Yazid in his war against Walid. 

33 See Lagrange, RB, 3:136, 1894 on the stone marking eight miles fromjerusalem; he proves 
that the Arabic mile was 2,500 metres long (3,000 cubits) and similarly in Samhudi, II, 358, 
and this is missing in Hinz, Masse, 63. See also Lagrange, RB, 6:104, 1897, and the 


109 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


their own coins, which replaced the Persian and Byzantine coins which 
had been used until that time. According to the information on this in Ibn 
al-Athir, the mintage of coins began in the year AH 76, or AD 695. 
Previously the Muslims exported papyrus from Egypt which was ex¬ 
changed for dinars from the Byzantines. The papyrus would be stamped 
with a cross and Christian sayings for the Byzantines, but later they began 
to be imprinted with Muslim versions. The Byzantine emperor threatened 
that if they would continue to do this, the Byzantines would mint coins 
stamped with insults to Muhammad. It was at this point that the Muslims 
began to mint their own coins, at first in Iraq (Wasit), at a mint whose 
operation was committed by al-Hajjaj ibn Yusuf to ajew named Sumayr. 
The finds of coins indicate that there was an intensive production of coins 
in Palestine in the following places: Jerusalem, Bet Guvrin, Ramla, Asca- 
lon, ‘Amman, Gaza, Lod, Yavne, Tiberias, Bet Shean, Sepphoris, and 
Tyre. Some of these mints were already in existence during the Byzantine 
era, and it appears that they were again in use during the days of the 
Damascene caliphs after ‘ Abd al-Malik. The inscriptions on the coins were 
Iliya Filastln, ‘Asqalan Filastln, and the like. From the mint of Bet Shean, 
coins were found with Greek inscriptions, but appear to have been gradu¬ 
ally replaced by Arabic. There were among those coins from Bet Shean 
some with the Greek inscription ‘Skythopolis’ together with the Arabic, 
‘Baysan’, or ‘Baysan’. 34 


The administrative division 

[122] The administrative division of Palestine was determined in general 
terms immediately after the conquest and it was developed during the 
Umayyad period. By and large, this division followed along the lines that 
existed in the days of the Romans and the Byzantines. During the Byzan¬ 
tine era, Palestine was divided into three parts: Palaestina prima, Palaestina 
secunda, Palaestina tertia. These are explicitly mentioned in an imperial 
order of 23 March 409, included in the Theodosian Code. The first part 

inscription on the stone saying: ‘the building of this road was ordered by amir al-mu'mimn 
‘Abd al-Malik, of blessed memory; from Iliya to this mile there are eight miles’. See there 
also on the stone from the monastery of Koziba, See Vincent, RB, 12:271, 1903, on the 
stone marking seven miles from Jerusalem; see also Repertoire d'epigraphie arabe, nos. 15, 
17; Van Berchem, MIE, 3(1900), 418f. On the stone in the Sea of Galilee see: Sharon, 
BSOAS, 29:367, 1966; Sharon finds here proof that the road from Damascus to Jerusalem 
passed to the south of the Sea of Galilee. Cf. also Bjorkman, Der Islam, 15(1926), 97: the 
Crusaders used all the milestones they could find, for their buildings. 

34 See Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, IV, 416; Ibn Taghri Bardi, I, 177; Walker, Catalogue (1956), I, 
xviiif, lxxiii-lxxvi; Ixxixf, 22, 23f; II, lxviii; If, 203, 205, 240, 266; see also a coin from 
Ascalon from the time of the Umayyads: Stickel, ZDMG, 39(1885), 40; 40(1886), 81; and 
coins from Tiberias and Gaza, evidently from the time of Walid: Monete cujiche (Museo di 
Milano), 37, and see also Nassar, QDAP, 13:121, 1948. 


no 



THE ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISION [122-125] 

included the coastal area, Judaea and Samaria, and its capital under the 
Byzantines was Caesarea. This sector was called jund Filastin shortly after 
the Muslim conquest and its capital undecided until Ramla was built. The 
second sector contained upper and lower Galilee, and the western part of 
Peraea (the land stretching east of the Sea of Galilee); this would shortly be 
called jund Urdunn after the conquest, and its capital was transferred from 
Bet Shean to Tiberias. The third sector, which included areas of Edom and 
Moab ( Palaestina Salutaris, Arabia Petraea) and the entire 1 Arava, no longer 
existed as a separate region and was partly absorbed into the jund Filastin 
and partly into the jund Dimashq. 

Jund Filastin covered the stretch from Rafiah (Rafah) to Megiddo (or 
Lajjun; the Byzantines had called it Maximianopolis), and from Jaffa 
(Yafa) to Jericho (Riha, or Ariha). According to some sources, Bet Shean 
also belonged to jund Filastin. Jund Urdunn included the Jordan valley 
(which is the ghawr) along its entire length, to Eilat in the south and up 
until Bet Shean in the north (some say: including Bet Shean), that is to say, 
also So‘ar and Jericho, also including the Galilee, northern Samaria, the 
entire area of the Sea of Galilee and part of the coast from ‘Atlit northward, 
including Acre and Tyre. The border between Hijaz and Palestine was the 
place called Wadi’ 1-Qura, ‘valley of the villages’. The Muslim sources 
emphasise the point that the Jews were not evicted from there when 
‘Umar ibn al-Khattab evicted all thejews from the Hijaz, as this valley was 
part of al-Sham and not Hijaz. 

In the ninth century, jund Filastin included the districts ( kuwar ; singular: 
kiira) of Ramla, Jerusalem (Iliya), ‘Imwas, Lod, Yavne, Jaffa, Caesarea, 
Nabulus (Shechem), Samaria (Sebastia), Bet Guvrin (Bayt Jibrin; in 
the days of the Byzantines - Eleutheropolis), the Dead Sea (Bahr Lut), 
Ascalon, and Gaza. In the eleventh century, we find that the chief adminis¬ 
trator of Muslim rule, the governor, was still stationed in Ramla, which 
was the capital of Filastin, while Jerusalem was under one of his sub¬ 
ordinates; the Gaon Solomon ben Judah refers to him (at the end of 
1042) as ‘the governor in the holy city’, whereas he uses the following 
formula when writing about the governor of Filastin: ‘. .. and over all, 
the great governor in Ramla’. Daniel ben Azariah mentions ( ca. 1055) 
‘the al-qasin [the chief, the commander] who is in Jerusalem’ (perhaps 
he meant the cadi). The district, kiira, was divided into sub-districts, 
which were called iqlim (pi.: aqaltm). One should take note that these 
terms were a direct heritage from the Byzantine administration, as the 
papyri found in the excavations of Nessana go to prove, for in them we 
find min kiira ghazza min iqlim al-khaliis as against klematos Elouses khoras 
Gazes. 

As to jund Urdunn, it included the following districts: Tiberias, 


hi 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


Samaria, (Samira - one part of Samaria; the other part, Sebastia, belonged 
to jund Filastin, as aforementioned), Bet Shean, Fihl, Bayt Ra’s, Gader 
(Jadar), Avel, (Abil), Susita (Susiya), Sepphoris (Saluriyya), Acre, Qedesh 
Naphtali (Qadas), and Tyre. 35 

[123] As one can see from these lists, the Arabs applied their own names 
to places in Palestine, some of which were genuinely Arabic but most of 
which were born out of different pronunciations of the original names. 
Palestine was part of al-Sham. Muqaddasi speaks of iqltm al-Sham. The 
term undoubtedly originated in Hijaz, and referred to the large area that 
stretched to the north of the Arabian peninsula. Sometimes we find 
expressions of the fact that in al-Sham there were actually two different 
units, Syria and Palestine, and then the dual Shaman is used. Salmon ben 

35 Codex Theodos., VII-4, 30; there is a clear reminder of the Byzantine heritage in the 
expressions al-shdm al-iilS (the first), al-sham al-thdniya (the second), that is, jund Filastin 
and jund Urdunn, as explained by Ibn ‘Abd Rabbihi, VI, 251. He adds that Bet Shean is 
between the two. See Ibn Khurdadhbih, 78f; Ya'qubJ, Bulddn, 327f; Ibn Hawqal, 168ff; 
Istakhri, 55ff; Muqaddasi, Aqdlim, 154f, 186; Ibn al-Faqih, 103, 116. cf. Abel, Geogr., II, 
171-178; Le Strange, Palestine, 28-35; Grohmann, Hirbet Mird, XLIIIff. See also Ibn 
Shaddad, Barq, 107a; Mas'udI, Muriij, II, 395: the border of Filastin starts at the place 
known by the name ‘al-Shajara’ (the tree), which is the tip of the land of Egypt and the 
border between it and al-Sham, and is a well-known place between al-'Arish and Rafah; cf. 
Ibn Taglirl Bardi, 37: the southern border of Filastin - two trees between Rafah and 
al-‘Arish; ibid., 57: Egypt begins at Eilat (written in the fifteenth century). One must 
remember that many of the Arab chroniclers lived far from Palestine and were not always 
precise; thus for instance Ibn Sa‘d tells: 1(1), 21, about Abraham who settled in Beersheba, 
which is Sab‘, a place between Jerusalem and Filastin. Possibly in saying Filastin, he 
intended Ramla, as is also noted by Nasir Khusraw, 19 (text), 65 (translation): the town of 
Ramla is called Filastin, both in al-Sham and in the Maghrib (and vice-versa, one can 
assume that not infrequently when meaningjund Filastin, they said Ramla). Wadl’l-Qura, 
see for instance: BaladhurT, Futiih, 34; Samhudi, II, 388f-389. Solomon b. Judah: 132, 
II. 12-14; Daniel b. Azariah: 357, b, 1. 21. See: Nessana, No. 60, lines 2-3 of the Arabic part 
(p. 180), of the year 674 (October—November); No. 61, lines 2—4 (p. 182) of the year 675 
(August); No. 62, lines 2-4 (p. 184), of the year 675 (October). At a later period, the term 
iqllm was used, meaning a much wider geographical area and instead of the term jund one 
used sawadi see for instance; Maqdisi, Bad’, IV, 72: Jerusalem is in the s a load of Ramla. As to 
Bayt Ra’s, in Gilead, it is Beyt Reysha, i.e. Kapitolias (see Avi-Yonah, Ge'ograjya historic 
[Hebrew], 161); Gader, see ibid., 159f; Avel, ibid., 157f, and seethe map ibid, facing p. 150. 
Yaqut, Buldan, I, 776, in the entry Bayt Ra's, says it is the name of a village in Bayt 
al-maqdis, by which he may have meant either Jerusalem or Palestine. And he continues 
‘and some say it is a district ( kiira ) in Urdunn’. The latter is undoubtedly correct, and one 
should not deduce from him that there was at some time a village by this name near 
Jerusalem. It is worth mentioning in particular some border regions described by the 
Muslim geographers and which are part of what has been assembled by Le Strange, 
Palestine on pp. 30-35: the ‘Jifar’ is the area of northern Sinai, from lake Tinnls in the Delta, 
to the border of Palestine; the ‘Ghawr’, its main city wasjericho, is the area of‘the people 
of Lot’ and the Dead Sea, being the valley which starts from the Sea of Galilee southward, 
and as we have seen, part of it belonged to jund Filastin and another part (from Bet Shean 
northward) to Urdunn; ‘al-Hula’ is according to Yaqut the region between Tyre and 
Baniyas; ‘al-Balqa’, is the region of Ammon and its main city, ‘Amman; ‘al-Sharah’, is the 
region of Moab, and its main city Adhruh. So‘ar (Zughar, Zoar) was considered the 
border of the Sharah, which stretched between Moab (Ma’ab) and Zoar, see Bakri, 699. 


112 



THE ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISION [122-125] 

Yeruhim explains in his commentary on Ps., xlviii:2 (Beautiful for situ¬ 
ation [nof], the joy of the whole earth, is mount Zion, on the sides of the 
north): Zion is on the sides of the north, that is to say northward (sham) 
from Nof (or Memphis, which is in Egypt) since in his words, from Egypt 
one goes to al-Sham, northward, for Palestine (halad hayt al-maqdis) is to 
the north of Egypt. 36 

[124] It is already clear from the foregoing discussion that by the name 
Filastm the Muslims meant only a part of Palestine. The name is naturally 
not an Arab one, but a distortion of the name of the country in Greek and 
Latin. To the ancient writers it was obvious that this name was taken from 
that of the Philistines, who were the inhabitants of the coastal strip in 
Biblical times. As they were ethnically close to the Greeks, the Philistines 
were well-known to them, unlike the Israelites, who lived in the interior. 
Epiphanius, one of the writers of the early Church (who died in May 402) 
could explain that: ‘the seed of Abraham is widespread in the land of 
Canaan, that is, in the Jewish land [Ioudaia] and in the land of the Philis¬ 
tines [Philistiaia], that which is now called Palaistine’. Also among the 
Jews there was the awareness that Filastin is none other than that ‘land of 
the Philistines’, and sometimes we find this expression, land of the Philis¬ 
tines, in letters from the Geniza, in the eleventh century AD, when the 
writer is referring to jund Filastm. An Arabic translation of the Bible 
renders Gen., xxvi:15: For all the wells ... the Philistines had stopped 
them: ‘Sadha al-filastaniyun’. A Samaritan chronicle, in speaking of the 


36 MuqaddasI, Aqaltm, 151f: one says al-Sham because it is the beauty spot ( shama ) of the 
ka'ba; some say because those who go there turn left (that is, going from Hijaz, facing 
eastward) - tasha’um ; some say because of the spots ( shdmdt) on its earth: red, white and 
black. The Iraqis call al-Sham everything beyond the Euphrates. Ibn al-Faqih, 92: al-Sham 
is the region between Kufa and Ramla, and between Balis (a city on the Euphrates, see: Le 
Strange, Lands, 107) and Eilat. Badri, 13ff, quotes a series of explanations for the name, 
and among them that it was the name of one of the sons of Canaan. Mas'udi, Muruj, III, 
139ff: because it is to the left of the ka‘ba; some say it is because ofits bad luck ( shiim), etc. 
Some say: after Shem, the son of Noah. See Dimashqi, 192: after Shem, the son of Noah, 
as the sill became shin (in Arabic he is called Sam); SijistanI, Gharib (MS India Office), 111a. 
Shaman, see for instance: Sibp ibn al-jawzl, Mir’ah (MS BM Or 4619), 189b; Jawallql, 
Khati’, 146, emphasises that the spelling is al-Sham, without a hamza, the alif being a 
mater lectionis. See Salmon ben Yeruhim, Commentary on Psalms, ad locum; cf. Kitah 
al-sab'in lafza, ed. Allony, Goldziher Memorial Volume, II, 27: ‘beautiful for situation the 
joy of the whole earth .. .' (i.e., that Palestine is [like] the most beautiful boughs of a tree in 
the world); the ‘Ariikh, VIII, 97b, referring to the expression in BT, Men. 33b: pithe shima’e 
(a kind of door that is exempt from the mezuza, according to Rabba): ‘in Arabic, one says 
balad al-Sham, which is the Land of Israel’; cf. Osar ha-ge’dnim to Erubin, p. 86. From this 
and from many other places, it is clear that among thejews the most common meaning of 
al-Sham was Palestine. Cf. Bacher, JQR, 8:564, 1905/6; Vilnay, Zion, 5(1940), 75; 
Goitein, Leshonenu, 30(1965/6), 211. And see TS AS 161.69, a fragment from an Arabic 
commentary on the Talmud, line 6: al-talmud al-shdmi, that is, the Palestinian Talmud; and 
against this, line 9:jt talmudnd - in our Talmud - that is, the Babylonian. 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


Muslim conquest, says that ‘the Ishmaelites came and captured the land of 
the Philistines’. 37 

[125] As tojerusalem, we find that its ancient name among the Arabs in 
the period preceding Islam and also in the first generations of Islam, was 
Iliya. This name undoubtedly came from the Roman name of the city after 
the rebellion of Bar Kokhba, being called after Hadrian: Aelia Capitolina. 
It seems that the Arabs began to use the name Iliya at a very early period. 
Under later Byzantine rule we do not find it in Greek sources. Theo- 
phanes, who wrote at the beginning of the ninth century, does not 
mention this name at all, whereas Muslim writers were still using it in the 
tenth century. Indeed, Muslim writers tried to interpret the name in many 
ways, such as that it derived from Elijah (Ilyas), or that its meaning was 
‘the house of God’; or that it was the name of the woman who built 
Jerusalem. But there were those who knew that it was the name of a 
Roman emperor. Some time after the conquest, also the name Bayt 
al-Maqdis began to come into use, a name which could be taken for a 
shorter version of Madinat Bayt al-Maqdis, city of the temple. Only later, 
principally starting from the eleventh century, do we find that the name 
al-Quds was in use, supplanting all the other names. It was at that time that 
the claims were first heard that it was forbidden to use the name Iliya, as it 
was a heathen name. Other names were also known to Arab writers: 
Yerushalayim, Urshalim, Shalem, and Zion or Sahyun, which Bakri 
emphasises should be written Sihyun. The term bayt al-maqdis became 
open to various other meanings. Sometimes it meant the Temple Mount 
and sometimes (in most cases) the city ofjerusalem, but at times also the 
whole of Palestine. The Karaite Sahl b. Masliah evidently means Palestine 
when he says in his letter tojacob b. Samuel: ‘Know that I came from the 
beyt ha-miqdash to warn’. Ibn ‘Asakir says of‘Ubada b. al-Samit: ‘he died 
in bayt al-maqdis in Ramla’. 38 


Muslim personalities in the Umayyad period 

[126] We can now examine more closely the figures who actually held 
the reins of government in Palestine in the political field, that is the 

37 Epiphanius, MPG, 41, 209; see the fragment of the Arabic translation; TS AS 70.119; the 
Samaritan chronicle: Adler et Seligsohn, REJ, 45(1902), 241. 

38 Mas'udi, Tanbth, 128: after the name of Iliya Adhriyanus, and this is what it is called to this 
day; in Muruj , II, 305 he points out that the city was built by Antoninus (in the printed 
version: Abtulis) and it is he who first called it Iliya. Bakri, 217, 235, 844: Iliya = the house 
of God; so also Suhayli, Ta'rif, 10b; Khafaji, II, 293: Iliya in Syriac (the language of Adam) 
means the house of God; Abu'l-Fida’, Mukhtasar (following al-Muhallabi): Jerusalem was 
rebuilt gradually after Titus destroyed it and called it Iliya, which means: House of the 
Lord. Wasiti, 21: it is forbidden to say Iliya, only Bayt al-maqdis (in the name of Ka‘b 
al-Ahbar), and see in the notes 2 and 4 on p. 22, additional references listed by the editor. 



MUSLIM PERSONALITIES UNDER THE UMAYYADS [SECS. 126-201] 

administration and the army (though it is generally difficult to differentiate 
between them), in the legal arena and in the religious and spiritual spheres. 

In the first rank, we find the caliph’s families. Naturally, the Umayya 
clan, both the Sufyanids (Mu‘awiya’s branch) and the Marwanids (the 
branch of Marwan ibn al-Hakam and of his son ‘Abd al-Malik), preferred 
their brothers and sons to others and entrusted to them the governing of 
Palestine. The most striking case, which we came across during the 
discussion on the building of Ramla, was that of Sulayman b. ‘Abd 
al-Malik, who even before he became caliph was already governor of 
Palestine, at first on behalf of his father ‘Abd al-Malik and afterwards on 
behalf of his brother al-Walld. Similarly, we find ‘Abd al-Malik’s grand¬ 
sons occupying positions in Palestine and involved in the wars of the tribes 
in 744—745. The last Umayyad caliph, Marwan, also appointed his relative 
al-Walld b. Mu'awiya b. Marwan as governor to jund Urdunn, in accord¬ 
ance with the tribes’ wishes however. ‘Abd al-Malik himself appointed his 
brother, Abu ‘Uthman Aban as governor of jund Urdunn (at the same 
time as he appointed his own son Sulayman to governjund Filastin). ‘Abd 
al-Malik’s son, al-Walld, left his brother Sulayman in his position in jund 
Filastin, and appointed his own son, ‘Umar, to govern over jund Urdunn. 
In the former branch of the Umayyad dynasty as well, the Sufyanids, we 
find Caliph Yazld b. Mu'awiya appointing his son Khalid to govern the 
two junds of Filastin and Urdunn. 39 

[127-130] Apart from the members of the caliph’s families, the sources 

See also: Ibn al-Faqlh, 96, who adds that it is the name of the woman who built Bayt 
al-maqdis; MaqdisI, Bad', IV, 87: Iliya, that is to say, al-Khidr (a figure in Muslim tradition 
identified with Elijah). Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 13, also knows that it is the name of a Roman 
emperor. Yaqut, Buldan , IV, 592: one must not call Jerusalem Iliya, because it is the name 
of the woman who built the city; one should say Bayt al-maqdis (in the name of Ka‘b 
al-Ahbar). Jawaliqi, Khata , 155: one should write an alif (hatnza) at the end of the word: 
Iliya’; and he quotes for this purpose a verse by al-Farazdaq. Zarkashi, A‘ldm, 277f, has a 
lengthy discussion on the names of Jerusalem, and adds: Bayt al-quds, Urshalim, and 
other strange names which are evidently distortions of distortions, such as Babush, 
evidently Yabus (=Jebus) in the original. See Sahl b. Masliah, in Pinsker, Liqqute qad- 
moniyot , II, 30. Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 110, also uses the term al-Quds for Palestine when, in the 
name of Ka‘b al-Ahbar, he says that the best part of God’s world is al-Sham, and the best 
part of al-Sham is al-Quds, and the best part of al-Quds is the mountain of Nabulus; see 
examples of the use of‘Bayt al-maqdis’, or ‘Bet hamiqdash’, in the sense of Jerusalem or 
Palestine, in Assaf, Meqdrot , 40f, n. 53. For names of Jerusalem see Goitein’s article, 
Zlottiik Jubilee Volume , 62; see on the matter of Arabic names for places in Palestine: 
Vilnay, Zion, 5: 73, 1940. On ‘Ubada ibn Samit, see Ibn ‘Asakir, VII, 208. 

39 Khalifa ibn Khayyat, II, 394, 417 (on the governors of ‘Abd al-Malik and Walid); 
Baladhuri, Ansab, IV(B), 65. On Aban b. Marwan, see also: Ibn Qutayba, Ma‘drij\ 354. 
See: Shaban, Islamic History , 115ff, who deals with this policy in appointing governors, 
particularly with reference to the Marwani branch. These Umayyads who were appointed 
governors were mostly under the aegis of al-Hajjaj ibn Yusuf and his favourites, and the 
offices which they held served those who eventually became caliphs as an excellent school 
for their future careers. 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


mention others who filled governing roles in Palestine. These were gener¬ 
ally heads of tribes who took part in the conquest, or who lived (or had 
settled) in Palestine. It seems that the first of those mentioned was a certain 
‘Ubayd, who was the governor of Jerusalem on behalf of ‘Umar, and 
occupied this position when the plague of ‘Imwas was raging (639). 40 
Evidently he was put in charge of what was afterwards jund Filastm. The 
man responsible for governing jund Urdunn was apparently residing in 
Bet Shean in the period immediately after the conquest. To this post, 
‘Umar ibn al-Khattab appointed Abu’l-Harr Husayn b. Malik ibn al- 
Khushkhash Abu’l-Qalus, a man of the Banu Tamlm, from the ‘Anbar 
clan. He seems to have maintained this position for forty years. 41 Another 
governor placed in office in jund Filastm by ‘Umar was ‘Uwaymir b. Sa‘d, 
a Medinan of the Banu Aws, of the clan of ‘Amr b. ‘Awf. He settled in 
Palestine and died there. ‘Uwaymir was one of the most important 
Muslim commanders during the wars of conquest. Most sources mention 
that he governed the junds Hims and Qinnasrin (northern Syria). One 
source stresses his decent behaviour towards the dhimmls: on seeing a 
group of dhimmls being taken into custody for not paying the khardj, he 
ordered them to be freed. 42 

In the days of Caliph ‘Uthman, ‘Alqamab. Hakim, of the BanuKinana, 
governed jund Filastm. While in Urdunn, Abu’l-A‘war ‘Amr b. Sufyan, 
of the Banu Sulaym, a clan of the Qays ‘Aylan, was in charge. Responsible 
for the remainder ofjund Filastm, after the deposal of Khalid ibn al-Walid, 
was ‘Alqama b. Mujazziz (or Muharriz), who was one of the highest 
commanders during the conquest. ‘Umar appointed him governor of 
Jerusalem and also responsible for half ofjund Filastm, while ‘Alqama b. 
Hakim was in charge of the other half and was stationed in Ramla (which 
had not yet been founded; the intention may possibly be Lod). ‘Alqama b. 
al-Mujazziz came of the Banu Murra, and they too were a branch of the 
Banu Kinana. 43 

[131-133] The next governor ofjund Filastm was Maslama b. Makhlad. 

40 Ulayml, 253. 

41 Ibn ‘Asakir, IV, 371; Ibn al-Kalbl (Caskel), 81; Ibn Hazm./am/iara, 209, calls him Husayn 
b. al-Harr and mentions that he was governor of Meyshan (Maysan) for forty years, and 
one can easily see that this is a mistake and that it is Bet Shean which is being spoken of, and 
not Meyshan, which is in Iraq. 

42 See Ibn Hazm, Jamhara, 334; perhaps BaladhurT was referring to him in Ansdb, IV(A), 137, 
when speaking of the Ansar! (that is, one of the first Muslims in Medina) ‘Amr b. Sa'id, 
whom Mu‘awiya appointed governor ofjund Filastm. See also: Ibn al-Athlr, Usd, IV, 144f 
(called also ‘Umayr); Sahmi, 86. 

43 Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 2526, 2866, 3058; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, II, 501, 535; Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 545; 
Ibn Khaldun, 'lbar, II, 949; Ibn al-Kalbl (Caskel), 36, 44, see ibid., II, 154 (‘Alqama b. 
Muharriz). Ibn al-AthTr, Usd, IV, 14, quotes the lineage of‘Alqama b. al-Mujazziz and the 
tradition that he was killed in a campaign against the Ethiopians organised by ‘Umar ibn 
al-Khattab. 



MUSLIM PERSONALITIES UNDER THE UMAYYADS [SECS. 126-201] 

(Nasr b. Muzahim speaks of ahl Filastitr, by ahl he and other writers always 
mean the tribes. The governor was appointed primarily to stand at the 
head of the tribes, which implicitly meant at the head of the army stationed 
in the area and in this way, was in fact, the ruler of the place.) This 
appointment was apparently connected mainly with the organisation of 
the tribes in Palestine during the war against ‘AIT, when these tribes and 
their leaders stood staunchly by Mu'awiya. 44 Afterwards, in the year 
AH 38, or AD 658/9, Mu'awiya appointed Shumayr al-Khath‘ami as 
governor ofjund Filastin, while in jund Urdunn, he left the aforemen¬ 
tioned Abu’l-A‘war, that is ‘Amr ibn Sufyan al-SulamT, in the position he 
occupied. 45 The local governor injerusalem during Mu‘awiya’s time was 
Salama (or Salma) b. Qaysar, and it is said that his descendants continued 
to live injerusalem. 46 

[134-137] In 682, during Yazid b. Mu'awiya’s reign, before the cam¬ 
paign against Medina (the battle of al-Harra), the caliph appointed Tarif 
b. Habis, known by the nickname Ibn Khushkhash al-Hilali, to stand at 
the head of the tribes ofjund Filastin. 47 At about the same time, in 683-684, 
a governor is mentioned in the papyri of Nessana by the name of Abu 
Rashid. 48 Coming originally from Palestine, Sa‘Td b. Yazid of the Banu 
Azd, began to govern Egypt in 682. It was said that he was not very 
effective there and that ‘Abdallah ibn Zubayr removed him from his post 
in less than two years. 49 Afterwards, in the days of ‘Abd al-Malik, we 
come across a position that is generally not mentioned, sahib al-Balqa’, 
which means the governor of Balqa’, southern Trans-Jordan. This may 
possibly indicate not only an administrative division in geographical terms 
but also the formation of a local tribal grouping that is not clear to us. That 
governor was ‘Umar b. Muhammad, of the Banu Thaqlf, who was an 
uncle ofal-Hajjaj b. Yusuf. 50 


44 Nasr b. Muzahim, 206; Khalifa ibn Idayyat, I, 222. According to Ibn Abf l-Hadld, I, 649, it 
was ‘All who appointed Maslama b. Makhlad, and not Mu'awiya. Dlnawarl, 172: Mas- 
lama b. Khalid, It is likely that this Maslama b. Makhlad is the same as Meslem, the 
governor mentioned in the papyri of Nessana, between 682-689 (see: Nessana, 33, 170, line 
10; Meslem despotos). But perhaps that governor is Muslim b. ‘Uqba. Ibn Hazm .Jamhara, 
435: he was one of Mu'awiya’s retainers, and was a descendant of the family of Himyar b. 
Saba, that is, from Yaman (from those who claim descent from Qahtan). 

45 The Banu Khath'am clan, a southern tribe, see Ibn al-Kalbi (Caskel), 224. Ibn al-A‘war 
was from the Banu Sulaym, a clan of the Qays ‘Aylan, see Ibn Hazm, Jamhara, 264; 
Ya'qubi, Ta’rtkh, II, 226. 

46 Ibn al-Athlr, Usd, II, 326; MaqdisI, Muthir (KhalidI), 34. 

47 Ibn ‘Asakir, Ta’rikh, VII, 57. From the Banu Khushkhash we later on find Khalid b. 
Yazid, who was cadi in Trans-Jordan (in Balqa’), see; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, III, 125f, 

48 Nessana, 33. 

49 Ibn Taghrf BardI, I, 157; cf. Lane-Poole, History, 46. 

50 Akhbar al-dausla al-'abbasiyya, 156; cf. Ibn al-Kalbi (Caskel), 118. Khalifa ibn Khayyat, II, 
394, turns things around and calls him: Muhammad b. ‘Umar. 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


[138-139] The leaders of the BanuJudham also governed in Palestine at 
that time. These were Natil b. Qays and Rawh b. Zinba‘ and his sons, who 
have already been mentioned in describing the political and military events 
of the time. In the days of Marwan b. Muhammad, the last Umayyad 
caliph, the names of the following governors of Palestine appointed by 
him are mentioned: al-Rumahis b. ‘Abd al-‘Az!z of the Banu Kinana, in 
jund Filastin; Tha'laba ibn Salama, of the Band ‘Amila, in jund Urdunn. 
They later fled together with the caliph when the Abbasid army pursued 
him. 51 Al-Hakam b. Dib‘an b. Rawh, of the Band Judham, remained head 
of the tribes of Filastin instead of al-Rumahis, but after a short time was 
also obliged to flee, to Ba'labakk; where the people of the new regime 
caught him and had him put to death. 52 

[140] In addition to the people I have already mentioned and of whom it 
is explicitly told that they were appointed to govern in Palestine and over 
the tribes living there, the names of some personalities who were involved 
in the political life of Palestine and who were active in various adminis¬ 
trative positions are known to us. At the head of the Christian tribe 
Ghassan, one of the most important of the tribes in Palestine, stood Jabala 
b. al-Ayham of thejafna clan. He fought on the Byzantine side in the battle 
of the Yarmflk. Afterwards, he requested that the tribe pay sadaqa, like the 
rest of the tribes, but ‘Umar demanded that the tribe pay the poll-tax. 
Some say that Jabala converted to Islam, but afterwards returned to 
Christianity and went with 30,000 of his tribesmen to join the Byzantines 
in Cappadocia, and there his descendants were known of for some gener¬ 
ations. According to one version, Jabala went over to the Byzantines 
because Abu ‘Ubayda refused to have a man executed or to have his hand 
cut off, for having slapped Jabala in the market-place of Damascus after 
Jabala’s horse had injured him. 53 

[141-144] The first cadi of Palestine was Abu’l-Walid ‘Ubada b. al- 
Samit. He was one of the first to turn to Islam in Medina, and took part in 
the two meetings in ‘Aqaba and also in the battle at Badr. He belonged to 
the very respected clan of Banu Ghanm b. ‘Awf, of the Khazraj tribe. In 
‘Aqaba, the Prophet made him naqlb, or one of the Twelve. According 
to Ibn Sa‘d and many others, he died in Ramla in the year AH 34, or 
AD 654/5, at the age of seventy-two (once again we are faced with the 
Ramla problem, as it had not yet been built). During his stay in Palestine, 
he quarrelled with Mu'awiya (who was then commander of the army on 
behalf of ‘Umar), for he thought that Mu'awiya was not behaving 


51 Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, 46. 

53 Tabari, ibid., 47; Ibn 'Asakir, IV, 393. 

53 Ibn al-Kalbi (Caskel), 193, and see ibid., II, 248; Ya'qiibI, Ta'rikh, II, 161, 168; Ibn 
Qutayba, Ma'drif, 107, 644; Ibn Hazm, Jawfcara, 372. 

Ii8 



MUSLIM PERSONALITIES UNDER THE UMAYYADS [SECS. 126-201] 


honestly as the man in charge of al-Sham. He complained to ‘Umar, who 
after listening to his complaints ordered him to return to al-Sham. At first 
he resided in Hims and afterwards moved to Palestine. It was said that 
‘Umar sent him to al-Sham to teach the Muslims the Koran. It is noted that 
he was very tall, ten spans in height (ca. 2.40 metres). 54 His son-in-law, 
Abu Muhammad (there are some who say he was Abu Nu'aym Mu¬ 
hammad b. al-Rabi‘ b. Suraqa al-Madani), who was also of the Banu 
Khazraj and had settled in Jerusalem, died there in 718 at the age of 93. 55 
Another Jerusalemite was ‘Ubayda’s step-son, Abu Ubayy ‘Abdallah b. 
‘Amr (who is perhaps the ‘Abdallah b. ‘Umar, of the inscription in 
Khirbat Mafjar). His offspring were also known in Jerusalem for some 
generations. 56 ‘Ubayda’s brother, Aws b. al-Samit, who was also one of 
the veterans of Islam and participated in the battles alongside the Prophet, 
also settled in Jerusalem. It is said that he died in Ramla (!) in 652. 57 

[145-149] After ‘Ubada, the name of his successor to the rank of being in 
charge of legal affairs in jund Filastln, the chief cadi, is known to us as ‘ Abd 
al-Wahhab b. ‘Abdallah. He was a man of Quraysh, of a branch of the 
Banujumah, from the family of Mas'ud b. Umayya. He lived in Palestine 
(it is not known where) and died there. 58 Following him, the chief cadi in 
jund Filastln was ‘Abdallah b. Mawhib, from the tribes of Yaman; some 
say from the Hamadan and others say from Khawlan. He served in this 
position during the days of‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘AzIz. Khazraji calls him 
amir Filastln , 59 From Mu'awiya’s time, the name of al-Mukhariq b. al- 
Harith al-Zubaydl is mentioned; he was one of Mu’awiya’s most loyal 
followers. The clan of Zubayd was affiliated to the Banu Madhhij, a large 
tribe which was actually an alliance of tribes, who hailed from Yaman. 
One of its important branches settled in Trans-Jordan after the conquest. 

54 Ibn Sa‘d, 1(1), 147; VII(2), 113f; Baladhuri, Ansab, I, 239, 251f (he also claims he died in 
Ramla); Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 2960; Muqaddasi, Muthir, 25f; Ibn Hisham, 311: ‘Ubada 
participated in all the battles of the Prophet. He was an ally of the Jews of Banu Qaynuqa*, 
and after the hijra, he announced that the alliance was annulled and invalid. Because of him 
and ‘Abdallah b. Ubayy, the order was ‘handed down’ in the Koran forbidding the 
Muslims to make pacts with thejews or the Christians (surat al-nisd’ , iv:143). Ibn Qudama, 
190: his grave is in Jerusalem and its site is known. Some say he died in Ramla, and others 
Jerusalem. Ibn Habib, Muhabbar , 270; Ibn Qutayba, Ma'arif, 255; Ibn ‘Asakir, VII, 208ff; 
Mawsill, I Vasd’il, 244; Ibn Kathlr, Biddya IV, 4; DhahabI, Siyar, II, 1; idem, Ta’rikh, II, 118; 
BustI, 51 (No. 334); Ibn al-Athlr, Usd, III, 106f; Ibn TaghrlBardl, I, 93; Khazraji, 159: a 
hundred and eighty-one hadlths are told in his name which he heard from the Prophet, and 
he was one of those who already knew the Koran by heart in the Prophet’s day. Ibn Hajar, 
Tahdhib, V, 1 Ilf; ‘Ulayml, 253. 

55 BustI, 28 (No. 137); Khazraji, 317; DhahabI, Ta’rikh, IV, 52; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, X, 63. 

56 Ibn Sa‘d, 111(2), 57; VII(2), 123. 

57 Nawawl, Tahdhib, I, 129f; Ibn al-Athlr, Usd, I, 146: he lived in Jerusalem together with 
Shaddad b. Aws. 

58 Ibn Hazm, Jamhara, 160. 

59 Khazraji, 183; DhahabI, Ta’rikh, IV, 139; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VI, 47. 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


Mu‘awiya appointed Mukhariq head of the tribesmen injund Urdunn. 60 
At the same time he placed Shurayk (or Shurayt) at the head of the 
tribesmen injund Filastin. To the Banu Ghassan, whose leader jabala b. 
al-Ayham deserted to the Byzantines, as we have already seen, a new 
leader was appointed, Yazld (or Zayd) b. al-Harith. This tribe afterwards 
settled in Urdunn. 61 As I have already mentioned, the commander of the 
army which Yazld sent in 682 to suppress the insurrection against his reign 
in Medina was one of the heads of the tribes injund Filastin, Muslim b. 
‘Uqba. He came from the Banu Murra, of the Ghatafan tribe, and he had 
5,000 tribesmen from jund Filastin under his command headed by Rawh 
b. Zinba‘, and 1,000 from Urdunn, headed by Hubaysh b. Dulja. 62 

[150-152] In the days of‘Abd al-Malik’s sons, we know the name of a 
client ( mawla) of Sulayman, who is Abu ‘Ubayd al-Hajib. He was a sort of 
privy councillor (probably similar to the Byzantine cubicular) evidently of 
Jewish or Christian origin. Sulayman brought him from Palestine to 
Damascus when he became caliph. When ‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘Az!z took 
over as caliph, he sent him back to Palestine, and there he died in ca. 740. 
According to some sources, he was known as al-Madhhiji, that is, he was 
evidently a client of the Banu Madhhij, who lived in Palestine. The reason 
for his dismissal was that he was arrogant to the tribesmen ( al-‘amma , the 
plebs, and certainly the tribes are meant). 63 Another client of‘Abd al- 
Malik’s clan was Nu'aym b. Salama, who acted as a sort of chief secretary 
(responsible for the dtwan al-khatim - ‘the office of the seal’) ofMaslama b. 
‘Abd al-Malik, the commander of the Umayyad army in the first quarter 
of the eighth century AD; he also fulfilled this position under Caliph 
‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘Aziz. It was said of him that he was a Palestinian by 
origin, a client of the Yaman tribes there. 64 We also know the identity of 
the man responsible for taxes (khardj ) injund Filastin under ‘Umar ibn 
‘Abd al-‘Aziz; he was Abu’l-Qasim ‘Abdallah b. ‘Awf, of the Banu 
Kinana. He died around 730. 65 

60 Ibn al-Kalbl (Caskel), 270; Nasr b. Muzahim, 206; Khalifa ibn Khayyat, I, 222; according 
to DInawari, 172, he was the leader of the Banu Quda'a, which is incorrect. 

61 Nasr b. Muzahim, 207; Khalifa ibn Khayyat, 222: Shurayt; DInawari, 172: Zayd b. 
Harith. 

62 Ibn al-Kalbl, 127, and see ibid., II, 437; Ya'qubI, Ta’nkh, II, 298f; Ibn Habib, Muhabbar, 
303; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, III, 294, points out that in the year AH 37, which was AD 657/8, 
that is twenty-five years earlier, Muslim b. ‘Uqba was appointed head of the infantry 
corps in Damascus. See the subject of the governor Meslem mentioned in the papyri of 
Nessana, above. 

63 Khalifa ibn Khayyat, I. 432. and ibid, the editor’s note: on the margin of the manuscript it is 
written that he was called Hay, and some say: Huyay, and some say: Hamid; Abu Zur‘a, 
92 (MS); Ibn Habib, Muhabbar, 259; KhazrajI, 383; DhahabI, Ta'nkh, V, 24; Ibn Hajar, 
Tahdhib, XI, 158. 

64 Tabari, Ta’rtkh, II, 838; Khalifa ibn Khayyat, II, 468. 

65 DhahabI, Ta’nkh, IV, 138. 


120 



MUSLIM PERSONALITIES UNDER THE UMAYYADS [SECS. 126-201] 


[153] A central figure during the reign of ‘Abd al-Malik and also during 
the reigns of other caliphs who succeeded him was AbuT-Miqdam (some 
say: Abu Nasr) Raja’ ibn Hayawa. He first resided in Tiberias (some say: in 
Bet Shean) and from there seems to have moved to Jerusalem and then to 
Damascus, where he had considerable influence in the court of the 
Umayyads. In the days of ‘Abd al-Malik he was responsible for the 
treasury. He earned quite a reputation for his knowledge of Muslim law. 
Raja’ was of the Banu Kinda and claimed descent from the clan of the heads 
of the tribe, Banu ‘Arnr, from which the famous Imra’l-Qays also 
stemmed. He filled a central and decisive role in the appointment of‘Umar 
ibn ‘Abd al-‘Aziz as caliph, since he was the chief adviser to ‘Umar’s 
predecessor, Sulayman, and persuaded him to proclaim his cousin ‘Umar 
as his heir. In the days of Hisham b. ‘Abd al-Malik he was known by the 
title of‘head of the tribes injund Filastln’. I have already mentioned the 
role he played in the building of the Dome of the Rock. He also had 
considerable sway over ‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘Az!z, and it is possible that 
under his influence, ‘Umar introduced his innovations in the matter of 
taxes. Raja’ b. Hayawa earned unusual praise in the Muslim sources, and it 
appears that the reason for this is that the appointment of‘Umar ibn ‘Abd 
al-‘Aziz as caliph (who was considered the only righteous one of the 
Damascene caliphs) is attributed to him. Raja’ died in the year AH 112, or 
AD 730/1. 66 

[154—157] In the year AH 119 (AD 737), the tribes ofjund Filastln are 
recalled as having participated in the campaign under Asad ibn ‘Abdallah 
against the T urks in central Asia. At the head of the Palestinian tribes stood 
Mus‘ab ibn ‘Amr of the Banu Khuza'a. 67 During the same period, we find 
another outstanding personality from the Banu Kinda, in a position simi- 

66 Ibn al-Kalbl (Caskel), 238 and see ibid. II, 484; Ibn Sa‘d, VII(2), 161 f; Ibn Hazm, Jamliara, 
429; Khalifa ibn Khayyat, II, 504; Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 1341-1345; KhazrajI, 99; Ibn 
Qutayba, Ma'drif 472; Ibn ‘Asakir, V, 312ff; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, V, 39ff, 172; BustI, 117 
(No. 901); Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, IX, 304; Abu Zur‘a, 42 (MS); Nawawl, Tahdhib, I, 190; Ibn 
Khallikan, II, 301ff; Ibn al-jawzl, Sifa, IV, 186f; DhahabI, Ta’rikh , IV, 261f; Ibn Khaldun, 
‘Ibar, III, 161; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, III, 266f: as to the name of his grandfather (the father of 
Hayawa) it is said that he was called Jarwal, and some say: Handal, but Ibn Hajar saw an 
exact writing of his name: Khanzal. See also: Caskel, Felsendom, 23 and see also the article 
dedicated to him by Bos worth, IQ, 16:36, 1972; and ibid., the information from a 
manuscript that the origin of his family was from Mayshan in Iraq, which according to 
Bosworth may indicate that his origin was from the Nabatls who spoke Syriac, or perhaps 
Persian, and that actually he was a client of the Kinda tribe. This is not even hinted at in the 
Arab sources. In the original seen by Bosworth, Mayshan is probably a distortion of 
Baysan (Bet Shean). Cf. also above, note 41. Bosworth also attributes to Raja’ decisive 
influence on the decision of Sulayman b. ‘Abd al-Malik to build Ramla, following the 
quarrel with the church about the parcel of land in Lod (see above). See also Shaban, The 
‘Abbasid Revolution, 76f. The son of Raja’, ‘Asim, is also mentioned. ‘Asim died around 
770, see DhahabI, Ta’rikh, VI, 86. 

67 Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 1609. 


121 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


lar to that of Raja’ b. Hayawa, namely Abu ‘Amr ‘Ubada b. Nussay; but 
whereas the former was active mainly in jund Filastln (before transferring 
to Damascus), the latter was appointed by ‘Abd al-Malik chief cadi injund 
Urdunn, and in the days of‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘AzIz he became governor 
of the region. He resided in Tiberias and was designated ‘head of the tribes 
of Urdunn’ (similar to the status of Raja’ b. Hayawa in jund Filastln). 
‘Ubada died in AH 118 (AD 736). 68 

There were also quite a number of well-known Muslim figures living in 
Jerusalem immediately after the conquest, or who came to settle there in 
succeeding generations, in the days of the Damascene caliphate. Among 
those whom the Muslim tradition links with Jerusalem we find Abu Yusuf 
‘Abdallah b. Salam, a Jew of the Banu Qaynuqa 1 , who turned to Islam 
with the arrival of Muhammad in Medina. According to WaqidI, he took 
part in the conquest of Jerusalem with ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab, and died in 
Medina in the year AH 43 (AD 663). 69 Another Jew, Sham'tin (Simon), 
from the Banu Nadir, who is Zayd (or b. Zayd) the father of Rayhana (a 
captive from among thejews whom Muhammad took as a concubine after 
he killed her husband, who was from the Band Qurayza), settled in 
Jerusalem according to the Muslim tradition and preached sermons on the 
Temple Mount. 70 

[158—161] Abd Ya‘la Shaddad b. Aws also settled in Jerusalem; he was 
the nephew' of the poet Hassan b. Thabit, who had been one of the 
retainers of the Prophet. His father, Aws b. Thabit, was a notable figure 
among the Ansar, the first Muslims in Medina. They were of the clan of 
the Band al-Najjar, the closest to Muhammad, which belonged to the 
Band Khazraj, Shaddad died at the age of ninety-five in Jerusalem in the 
year AH 58 (AD 678), towards the end of Mu‘awiya’s reign (but some say 
that he died in the year AH 64, AD 683/4). Ofhis offspring are mentioned 
Ya‘la, who passed on ancient traditions in the name ofhis father; and also a 
daughter whose name w'as Khazraj, married to a man of the Band Azd, 
with three sons, Muhammad, ‘Abd al-Wahhab and Mundhir. 1 have 
already mentioned that Shaddad’s house, which he built for himself in 
Jerusalem, collapsed in the earthquake of 748. It is said that the building’s 
collapse buried many Muslims, including Shaddad’s sons, w'ith the excep¬ 
tion of Muhammad, who survived but lost a leg. One should remember, 
however, that seventy years passed between Shaddad’s death and the 

68 Ibn Sa‘d, VI1(2), 162; Khalifa ibn Khayyat, II, 363f; Khazraji, 159; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, V, 

199; Busti, 180 (No. 1428); Dhahabi, Ta'nkh, IV, 261 f; Ibn ‘Asakir, VII, 214f; Ibn Hajar, 

Tahdhib, V, 113. 

69 MuqaddasI, Muthtr, 22; Ibn ‘Asakir, VII, 443; Nawawi. Tahdhib, I, 270; Dhahabi, Siyar, 

II, 296. 

70 Ibn Habib, Muhabbar, 93f (his full name: Sham'un b. Zayd b. Khunafa); Baladhuri, Ansab, 

I, 453f; Ibn al-Athir, Uid, III, 4; cf. Goitein, Yerushatayim, 1953/4, 87f. 


122 



MUSLIM PERSONALITIES UNDER THE UMAYYADS [SECS. 126-201] 

earthquake; and one must therefore conclude that it is probably his grand¬ 
sons or great-grandsons that are being spoken of rather than his sons. 71 

Among the Muslims who lived in Jerusalem during ‘Umar’s time we 
find Uways b. ‘Amir al-Qarani, of the Banu Madhhij, a YamanI tribe, 
who is described as one of the first righteous souls of Islam. 72 Another 
Jerusalemite was the adopted son of Ka‘b al-Ahbar (the son of his wife), 
Tubay* b. ‘Amir al-Himyari, that is to say that he stemmed from Himyar 
in Yemen. He died in 720 in Alexandria. 73 Another Yemenite who lived in 
Jerusalem was Abu ‘Abdallah Thawban b. Yamrud, who was one of 
Muhammad’s freedmen. It is said that he settled in Jerusalem by the 
Prophet’s own decree, in order that he beget heirs (however he did not 
succeed). He died in 674. 74 Among the founding fathers of Islam who 
settled in Palestine, mention should be made of Murra b. Ka’b al-Sulaml 
al-BahzI, who belonged to the Sahaba, of whom it is said that he settled 
first in Basra, moved afterwards to Palestine, and died in Urdunn in the 
year 677. He was said to have taken part in a convention of Muslim 
preachers which took place (evidently in Palestine) after the assassination 
of Caliph ‘Uthman and that he quoted praise of the murdered caliph, 
ascribed to the Prophet. 75 

[162-168] One who was considered as having laid the cornerstone of 
Arab historiography, Abu Bakr Muhammad b. Muslim b. Shihab al- 
Zuhri (of the Banu Zuhra, a clan of Quraysh) lived in Palestine, and it is 
said that he had an estate in a place called Shi‘b Zubda (as in Ibn Kathlr; 
according to Ibn Khallikan: ‘Adama or Adam!, a place situated behind 
Shighb and Bada, which are two valleys or two villages between Hijaz and 

71 Ibn Sa‘d, 111(2), 63, notes the fact that the offspring of Aws b. Thabit live in Jerusalem; and 
see ibid., VII(2), 124. See: Ibn al-Kalbl (Caskel), I, 186; II, 522; Baladhurl, Atisdb, I, 243f: he 
was aged seventy-five when he died. Ibn Qutayba, Ma'arif, 312; Ibn Qudama, 54; 
KhazrajI, 139; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, IV, 174; Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, VIII, 87f; Ibn Hajar, Isaba, 
III, 196; some say he died in AH 41 or 42 (AD 661, 662); idem, Tahdhib, IV, 315f: his grave 
is in Jerusalem; Ibn al-Tmad, I, 64; DhahabI, Ta’rikh, V, 39; idem, Siyar, II, 328—333; 
Nawawl, Tahdhib, I, 242 noted that one can see his grave until today (around 1250) before 
Bab al-Rahma. 

72 Ibn Sa‘d, VI, 111-115; on his stay injerusalem see‘Ulayml, 253; see about him further: Ibn 
al-Athlr, Usd, I, 151f. He was one of the followers of ‘All and was killed in Siffin. 
Abu’l-Hatim al-RazI wrote about him in his book (in manuscript) Ziihd ai-thamdniya min 
al-tdbi'in, see Sezgin, I, 179 (No. 7: about eight people whose sayings form the basis of 
Muslim mysticism. Cf. Sezgin, ibid., 632). See also Ibn al-Kalbl (Caskel), I, 271, II, 580. 

73 DhahabI, Ta’rikh, IV, 95. 

74 Ibn Sa‘d, VII(2), 140; Ibn Qutayba, Ma'arif, 147, claims that Thawban settled in Hims, and 
similarly Baladhurl, Ansdb, I, 480; Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 1778: some say he lived in Hims and 
others in Ramla; Ibn ‘ Asakir, III, 378ff: he lived in Ramla and had a house there, but died in 
Egypt; some say he lived in flims. DhahabI, Siyar, III, 11; Ibn al-Athlr, Usd, I, 249: he had 
houses in Ramla, Hims and in Fustat; see also Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, V, 314, and there 
different opinions on his origin. 

75 On Murra b. Ka‘b, see: Ibn al-Athlr, Usd, IV, 351. Goldziher, ZDMG, 50(1896), 493. 


123 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


al-Sham; some say: Nu‘f, in the same neighbourhood’). He was one of the 
retainers of‘Abd al-Malik and ofhis successors, especially of al-Walid. He 
died in AH 125 (AD 742) (but there are other versions). 76 

‘Abdallah b. Muhayriz, of the Banujumah, ofQuraysh, was one of the 
important settlers in Jerusalem. He earned much praise for his piety and his 
knowledge of the Koran. He participated in the battle against the Byzan¬ 
tines in 707, under the command of Maslama b. ‘Abd al-Malik, and died in 
AH 99 or AD 718. 77 Two ofhis contemporaries were brothers who settled 
injerusalem: Abu Nasr Ziyad and ‘Uthman, the sons of Abu Sawda. They 
were originally Palestinians and it is said that their father was a mawla, a 
client of ‘Abdallah ibn ‘Umar (‘Umar the caliph), but some say, of 
‘Abdallah ibn ‘Amr ibn al-‘As. Their mother was a mawlah of ‘Ubada b. 
al-Samit. 78 ‘Ata’ b. Abu Muslim (who is ‘Abdallah, and some say May- 
sara), was a man of Khurasan who settled injerusalem. His father was a 
mawla of al-Muhallab. According to al-Khatib al-Baghdadl, he was from 
Jurjan (to the southeast of the Caspian Sea). He died at the age of eighty in 
AH 135 (AD 752/3), in Jericho, and was brought to Jerusalem to be 
buried. He was a learned man and many traditions ascribed to the Prophet 
are quoted in his name, taken from contemporaries of the Prophet. 79 
Ibrahim b. Abu ‘Abla (who is Shamir b. Yaqzan al-‘UqaylI, evidently 
from the clan of‘Uqayl b. Ka‘b of the Banu Kilab, of the tribal federation 
of‘Amir b. Sa‘sa‘a) was a poet. He lived injerusalem during the Abbasid 
revolution and died in AH 151 (AD 768). 80 

The governor of Ramla during the days of‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘Aziz was 
Abu’l-Yaman Bashir b. ‘Aqraba al-Juhani, that is of the clan ofjuhayna, of 
the Banu Quda‘a. 81 In the middle of the eighth century, Abd Zur'a Yahya 
b. Abd ‘Amr al-Saybanl, of the clan of Sayban (who originated from 
Himyar in Yemen) lived in Ramla. He was a cousin of the cadi al-Awza‘i; 


76 Ibn Kathlr, Biddya, IX, 340-348; Ibn Khallikan, IV, 177ff. See further: Ibn Sa‘d, 11(2), 135f; 
Ibn al-Kalbl(Caskel), 20, and see ifeid., II, 424;Ibn Huzm, Jamhara, 130: hediedinShaghba 
near Bada; Yaqut, Bulddn, III, 302: Shaghb; Abu Nu‘aym, Hilya, III, 360-381; Ibn Hajar, 
Tahdhib, IX, 445f; and cf. the article al-Zuhrl (by J. Horovitz), in EP; Sezgin, I, 280ff, and 
more references in these two places. See also Duri, BSOAS, 19:1, 1957. 

77 Tabari, Ta’rlkh, II, 1192; Ibn Hazm, Jamhara, 162; Ibn al-Tmad, I, 116; Khazrajl, 181; Ibn 
al-Athlr, Kamil, IV, 531; DhahabI, ‘Ibar, I, 117; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VI, 22f. 

78 DhahabI, Ta’rikh, IV, 251; BustI, 117 (No. 903); Khazrajl, 106; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, III, 
373f; ‘Ulayml, 254f. 

79 DhahabI, Ta’rlkh, V, 279; Khazrajl, 126; al-Khatlb al-Baghdadl, Mudilt, I, 156; Nawawl, 
Tahdhib, I, 334f; SulamI, Targhlb, 9; Abu Zur‘a, 44 (MS); Ibn al-Tmad, I, 192f; Ibn Hajar, 
Tahdhib, VII, 212ff: from Balkh in Khurasan; Ibn al-Athlr, Lubdb, I, 351. 

80 Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, I, 142f; ‘Ulayml, 257; he is possibly the author of Kitab al-Nawadir 
attributed to Abu Shanbal al-‘UqaylI, mentioned by Sezgin, II, 86, No. 9. Ibn Hajar calls 
him: al-Ramll while ‘Ulaymi: al-MaqdisI (the Jerusalemite); Ibn ‘Asakir, II, 215-227: 
Ibrahim b. Shamir al-Filastlnl al-Ramll. 

81 Ibn Sa‘d, VII(2), 144; Ibn ‘Asakir, III, 266f. 


124 



MUSLIM PERSONALITIES UNDER THE UMAYYADS [SECS. 126-201] 

some say that he participated in the campaign against the Byzantines under 
the command of Maslama b. ‘Abd al-Malik. He died in AH 148 (AD 765), 
in the days of the Abbasids. 82 

[169-174] Of those Muslims who lived in Tiberias, a number have been 
mentioned: Ka‘b ibn Murra al-Bahzl, of the Banu Sulaym. He lived at first 
in Basra and from there moved to Palestine. He died in AH 57 (AD 677). 83 
‘Abdallah b. Hawala, of the Banu Azd, died in AH 58 (AD 678). A number 
of hadith traditions ascribed to the Prophet in praise of living in al-Sham 
are transmitted in his name. 84 Two generations later, the name of another 
man living in Tiberias is recalled: Abu Muhammad Salih b. Jubayr al- 
Suda‘1 al-Tabarani, of the Banu Azd, who was responsible for the lists 
(diwari) of taxes ( khardj ) and the allowances to the tribes (the army -al-jund) 
in the days of ‘Umar II, ibn ‘Abd al-‘Aziz. He died around 740. 85 A 
number of people who settled in Ascalon are recorded in the sources: 
Khalid b. Durayk, who died in around 740. 86 His contemporary in Asca¬ 
lon was Abu Bakr Aban ibn Salih ibn ‘Umayr ibn ‘Ubayd, of the Banu 
Khuza'a. 87 In the following generation in Ascalon, we find the son of the 
great-grandson of Caliph ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab, ‘Umar ibn Muhammad 
ibn Zayd ibn ‘Abdallah ibn ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab. He carried ‘Umar’s 
shield, flaunting it in public all the time. He had four brothers living in 
Ascalon: Abu Bakr, ‘ Asim, Zayd and Waqid. He was among the transmit¬ 
ters of the traditions ofMalik b. Anas. ‘Umar ibn Muhammad was one of 
the army commanders in Ascalon, and his offspring continued to live in 
that city. He made a journey to Baghdad and afterwards to Kufa as well, 
and everywhere masses of people came to meet him. He died in about 760, 
under the rule of the Abbasids. 88 

[175-178] Some Muslim personalities who lived in Eilat are mentioned 
in the sources of the period. Eilat was particularly connected with the 
Umayyads, from the days of the caliph ‘Uthman (who also came of the 
Umayya clan), for at that time in the town there were a group o£mawali, or 
clients. One can assume that they were either Christians or Jews who had 

82 Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 1864; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, V, 589; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhtb, XI, 260. 

83 Ibn Sa‘d, VII(2), 133; Ibn ‘Abd al-Barr, Isti'ab, III, 1326; Ibn al-Athir, Usd, IV, 248f; Ibn 
Hajar, Tahdhtb, VIII, 441. 

84 Ibn Sa‘d, ibid. ; DhahabI, Tbar, I, 62; Ibn ‘Abd al-Barr, Isti'ab, III, 894; Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 52; Ibn 
al-Athir, Usd, III, 148; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhtb, V, 194. 

85 DhahabI, Ta’rikh, IV, 258; Ibn ‘Asakir, VI, 366; KhazrajI, 144; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhtb, IV, 
383f. Suda, a clan from Madhhij. Otherwise called al-Azdl. See Ibn al-Kalbl (Caskel), I, 
265; II, 539. 

86 DhahabI, Ta’rikh, IV, 246: al-‘AsqalanI. Some say he was called al-Dimashql, and others 
say al-Ramll. KhazrajI, 85; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhtb, III, 86f. 

87 Ibn Sa‘d, VI, 234; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhtb, I, 94f, he was a mawla of Quraysh. 

88 DhahabI, Ta’rikh, VI, 104; idem, Tbar, I, 215; KhazrajI, 242; Ibn al-Tmad, I, 229: oneofthe 
most honourable of his generation; al-Khatlb al-Baghdadl, Ta’rikh, XI, 180f; Ibn Hajar, 
Tahdhtb, VII, 495f. 


125 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


accepted Islam and became clients of the caliph. They were given the task 
of caring for pilgrims, in particular supplying them with drinking water, 
for Eilat was an important way-station on the road to Mecca. This 
position rendered Eilat a certain importance and it developed 
economically; commerce flourished and there were many markets. Those 
converted clients were known for their erudition in everything concerning 
the traditions and Eilat became a centre of knowledge of the beginnings of 
Islam as well as in matters of law. The guide and the living spirit of this 
group was Ibn Shihab al-Zuhri, who lived in that region, as we have seen. 
Also mentioned as having settled in Eilat was a kinsman of the Caliph 
‘Uthman, Aban b. Sa‘Id b. al-‘As; he settled in Eilat, because he desired 
‘solitude and relaxation’. He evidently died in the year AH 29 (AD 650; 
some say it was earlier, during the conquest of Palestine; however it seems 
that these other sources may be speaking of his grandfather, also called 
Aban b. Sa‘Id). Some say that he was the person who dictated to Zayd b. 
Thabit the final version of the Koran, as it was set down in the days of 
‘Uthman. 89 Two or three generations later, we find the offspring of those 
mawdlt of the Umayyads. Abu Khalid ‘Uqayl ibn Khalid ibn ‘Uqayl died 
in about 760. From him, AbuYazid Yunusb. Yazidb. Abu’l-Najjad heard 
and learned traditions; he died some fifteen years after his teacher. It is said 
of‘Uqayl that he was a favourite of al-Zuhri and his friend. 90 Abu Yazid 
Yunus b. Yazid was a pupil of ‘Uqayl ibn Khalid and of al-Zuhri. His 
brother, Abu ‘ All (Khalid?) is also mentioned, as is his nephew, ‘ Anbasa b. 
Khalid b. Yazid. Ibn Hajar notes that Yunus had a weak memory; he 
therefore had to write everything down and kept a notebook. 91 Another 
personality in this group was ‘ Abd al-Hakam ibn A‘yun ibn al-Layth, who 
lived at the same time as the aforementioned. It is said that he and his father 
emigrated from Eilat and settled in Alexandria. If we consider this 
together with the fact that the aforementioned Yunus is said to have died in 
Egypt, we may assume that the whole group was persecuted under 
Abbasid rule because of their close connections to the Umayyads, and it is 
possible that because of this some of them fled to Egypt, where perhaps 
they felt more secure than in their native city. 92 

[179-186] Apart from these personalities, there are some thirty other 


89 Maqrlzl, Khitat, I, 325; IsbahanI, Aghdm, X, 62; Ibn al-Athlr, Usd, I, 35ff. 

90 Ibn Sa‘d, VII(2), 206f, mentions several people who lived in Eilat, among them this 
‘Uqayl; Sam'anI, I, 410; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, V, 528; ‘Uqayl died in AH 144, that is AD 
761/2; but see idem, Lubdb. I, 79: in AH 141 or 142, that is, AD 758 or 759; BustI, 183, No. 
1454. 

91 Ibn Sa'd, ibid.-, Sam'anI, ibid.-, Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, V, 608; BustI, 183, No. 1452; Yunus b. 
Yazid b. Abl’l-Mukhariq; KhazrajI, 380; KhafajI, 267; Ibn Hajar, Tahdlub, XI, 450ff; XII, 
174; according to him this family were mawali of the caliph Mu‘awiya. 

92 ‘Iyad, I, 313. 


126 



MUSLIM PERSONALITIES UNDER THE UMAYYADS [SECS. 126-201] 


figures recorded in the sources who were active during the Umayyad rule 
in Palestine, or who had some connection with Palestine. Abu Yahya 
‘Abdallahb. Sa‘Id, ibn AbiSarh, ofthe Banu‘Amir, ofQuraysh, who was 
governor of Egypt after ‘Amr ibn al-‘As, lived in Palestine and died there 
around 657. It was said of him that he was the scribe ofthe Prophet and 
that he would change what was dictated to him. When this was dis¬ 
covered, he abandoned Islam and fled to Mecca. ‘Uthman managed to 
obtain the Prophet’s pardon for him and when ‘ Uthman became caliph, he 
appointed him governor of Egypt. He played an important role in the 
conquest of Africa. He built himself a house in Egypt, probably in 646. 
After the murder of‘Uthman, however, he moved to jund Filastln, and 
died in Ascalon or in Ramla. 93 

The poet al-Rabi‘ ibn Matar ibn Balkh, of the Banu Tamlm, was 
involved in Palestinian affairs, took part in the conquest, and wrote poems 
about Tiberias and Bet Shean. 94 Abu Muslim ‘Abdallah b. Thawb, of the 
Banu Khawlan, accepted Islam in the days of MuTwiya. He lived at first in 
Basra and from there went to Palestine ( al-ard al-muqaddasa), where he died 
during the time ofCaliph Yazld. 95 Abu Muhammad ‘Abdallah b. al-Sa‘di, 
of the clan of ‘Amir b. Lu’ayy of the Quraysh, lived in Urdunn. 
It was said that he was one of the Prophet’s retainers. He died in AH 57 
(AD 677). 96 Jubayr b. Nufayr (or Nusayr) lived at first in Hims and 
afterwards in Palestine. He stemmed from Hadramawt (ofthe Kinda?) and 
converted to Islam at the time of Abu Bakr. He died in AH 75 (AD 694/5; 
later dates are also mentioned). 97 ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Ghanm, who was 
considered outstanding in his generation for his knowledge of traditions, 
came of the Yemenite tribe of Ash‘ar, and settled in jund Filastln. He died 
in AH 78, or AD 696/7. He was close to Marwan b. al-Hakam and visited 
Egypt with him. 98 Among those who settled in Jerusalem, we find Abu 
Qirdafa Wathila b. al-Asqa‘ of the Banu Kinana. He died at the age of 
ninety-eight in Jerusalem in AH 85 (AD 704); other sources say that he 
died at the age of 105 in AH 83 (AD 702/3). In Ibn al-Athlr and in Ibn 
Hajar, he is entered under a different name (and it is not certain which 

93 Baladhuri, Ansdb, I, 358 (points out that some say he died in Ifriqiya - in the region of 
Tunis - but he denies this); Ibn Qutayba, Ma'drij, 300ff (ascribes him to Madhhij); Ibn 
Tulun, Umara’, 10; Ibn ‘Asakir, VII, 432; Nawawl, Tahdhib, I, 269; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, 
III, 351: he died suddenly in Ascalon during his prayers; BustI, 53 (No. 358); Ibn Taghrl 
Bardi, I, 82 (on p. 94 he says that he was murdered in Palestine, and some say in Ramla). 
See the article ‘Abd Allah b. Sa‘d in EP (by C. H. Becker). 

94 Ibn ‘Asakir, V, 306f, 

95 Ibn Sa‘d, VII(2), 157; Abu Nu'aym, Hilya, 124f; cf. Goitein, BJPES, XII(1945/6), 123. 

96 Baladhuri, Ansab, I, 219; Ibn al-Athlr, Usd, III, 175; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, V, 235. 

97 Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, II, 64; ‘Ulayml, 257. 

98 DhahabI, Ta’rikh, III, 188f; Nawawl, Tahdhib, I, 302; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, IV, 449; 
Khazrajl, 197; BustI, 112 (No. 851); Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VI, 250f; ‘Ulayml, 257. 


127 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


version of the name is distorted): Jandara b. Khayshana; it is said of him 
that he was of the sahaba, the circle of the Prophet, and some say he lived in 
Sinajiya, a village in the neighbourhood of Ascalon. Ibn Hajar notes in the 
name of Ibn Hiban that he is buried in Ascalon." Another settler in 
Jerusalem was Abu Bishr, or Abu Bisr ‘Abdallah ibn Fayruz, a Persian by 
birth, who died in the year AH 90 (AD 708). 100 

[187-193] In the following generation, we find Abu Sinan Humayd b. 
‘Uqba of Quraysh, who lived injund Filastin after Damascus and Hims. It 
is said that he achieved great success in the days of Mu‘awiya. 101 Shank b. 
Judayr, a man of the Banu Taghlib (who were Christians in the time of the 
conquest) who was close to ‘All ibn Abl Talib, fought alongside him and 
was injured in one eye. After Mu‘awiya became caliph, he settled in 
Jerusalem and also participated in the rebellion of Mukhtar. 102 Farwa b. 
Mujahid was a man of Palestine, a mawla of the Banu Lakhm. He lived in 
Kafr ‘Ana in Palestine and died in about 720. 103 Han! b. Kulthum b. 
‘Abdallah b. Shank, was also of the Banu Kinana (though some say Kinda) 
and lived in jund Filastin. ‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘Az!z proposed that he 
become governor of the jund, but he refused. He died in around 720, in 
Safariyya, a village mentioned by Yaqut as being ‘near Ramla’. He is also 
known by the name Ibn Hibban. 104 Al-Qasim b. ‘Abd al-Rahman b. 
‘Abdallah b. Mas'ud, of the Banu Hudhayl, who lived in the region of 
Mecca, was cadi in Kufa, appointed by ‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘Aziz and 
moved afterwards to Jerusalem, where he was noted for three qualities: 
praying at great length, frequently keeping silent, and giving to charity. 
He died in AH 120 (AD 728). 105 Abu Salam Mamtur al-Dimashqi al-A‘raj 
(the lame) al-Aswad (the black) al-Habashl, was called al-Habashi because 
he belonged to a clan in Himyar (Yaman), who were so-called, and not 
because he was an Ethiopian. He lived in Palestine and was one of the 


99 Ibn Sa‘d, VII(2), 129; Ibn ‘Asakir 11(1), 14: while in Damascus he met Ka‘b al-Ahbar who 
showed him a place in the city where one prays as if praying in Jerusalem; cf. on this 
matter: Gruber, 68, and see there further references; Ibn al-Athir, Usd, I, 307; V, 276; Ibn 
Hajar, Tahdhib, II, 119, Yaqut, Buldan, III, 154f. 

100 DhahabI, Ta’rikh, III, 269; KhazrajI, 177; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, V, 358; ‘Ulayml, 254. 

101 DhahabI, Ta’rikh, IV, 109; Ibn ‘Asakir, IV, 461 f; Ibn al-Athir, Lubdb, II, 221. 

102 Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 714; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, IV, 264. 

103 DhahabI, Ta’rikh, IV, 44; KhazrajI, 262; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VIII, 264, quotes Bukhari 
with regard to Kafr ‘Ana. Bukhari, Ta’rikh, VII, 127 (No. 572) has: Farwa b. Mujalid(!), 
and in the printed version, Kafr Ghama; there is no way of knowing the place with 
certainty. 

104 DhahabI, Ta’rikh, IV, 94; in Bukhari, Ta’rikh, IX, 230 (No. 2823): Hanlb. Kulthum b. 
Sharlk; KhazrajI, 350; Busti, 118 (No. 917: sets the time ofhis death in the days of‘Umar 
ibn al-Khattab, which is certainly an error); Yaqut, Buldan, III, 12; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, 
XI, 22; ‘Ulayml, 254. 

105 Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, V, 105, 228; DhahabI, IV, 293; KhazrajI, 266; Busti, 106 (No. 803); 
Ibn Khaldun, ‘War, III, 297; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VIII, 321f. 


128 



MUSLIM PERSONALITIES UNDER THE UMAYYADS [SECS. 126-201] 

pupils of‘Ubada b. Samit. He died around 730. 106 Sulayman b. Sa‘d was a 
Palestinian from jund Urdunn (Tiberias?) who converted to Islam and 
became a mawla of the Banu Khushayn, a clan of the Quda‘a. He was the 
scribe of‘Abd al-Malik and afterwards also of al-Walid, of Sulayman and 
of‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘Aziz. He was the first to transcribe the lists of the 
diwan (the collection of taxes and the distribution of allowances to the 
tribes) from Greek into Arabic, and was the first Muslim to manage the 
affairs of the diwansd 07 

[194—200] In the generation which experienced the Abbasid revolution, 
we find Abu’l-Walld Rudayh b. ‘Atiyya, of Quraysh, who lived in Pal¬ 
estine and died there in about 765. He served as mu’adhdhin injerusalem. 108 
Abu Umayya ‘Abd al-Rahman al-Sindi lived in Nabulus, was one of the 
Palestinians who accepted Islam, was a mawla of Sulayman b. ‘Abd 
al-Malik and afterwards served as secretary to ‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘AzIz. 
He died in 760. 109 Masarra b. Ma‘bad, of the Banu Lakhm, who was 
learned in the traditions, lived in Palestine in Bet Guvrin and died in 
around 760. 110 Abu Sinan ‘Isa b. Sinan was a Palestinian, one of‘Umar ibn 
‘Abd al-‘Aziz’s retainers, who stayed as a guest in ‘Isa’s house injerusalem 
whenever he visited there. He emigrated from Palestine to Basra at some 
unknown date, perhaps after the Abbasid revolution, settled there with 
the al-Qasamil clan of the Banu Azd and was thus known by the name 
al-Qasmall; he was also called al-Hanafi, as he evidently belonged to the 
clan of the Banu Hanlfa of the Banu Bakr b. Wa’il. He died around 760. 111 
‘Abbad b. Kathlr was an inhabitant of Ramla, who died in around 770. 112 
His contemporaries were Sawwar b. ‘Ammara, who lived in Ramla and 
was a pupil of‘Abd al-Rahman al-Sindi, 113 and al-Walid b. Jamil, appar¬ 
ently of the Banu Kinana. 114 

[201] Special note should be taken of Abu Ruqiyya Tamlm al-Dari. He 
was an Arab of the Banu Lakhm, who lived on the Palestinian border 
before the advent of Islam. According to the Muslim traditions, he joined 
the Prophet and became his follower during the latter’s stay in Medina. He 
is credited with an astonishing knowledge of the Christian (or perhaps the 
Manichaean) sources and as a result had influence over the Prophet. It was 
he who introduced the great innovation in the Prophet’s mosque by 
proposing the use of oil for lighting instead of the palm tree branches 

106 DhahabI, Ta’rikh, IV, 205; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, X, 296. 

11)7 Ibn ‘Asakir, VI, 276. 

108 Bust!, 184 (No. 1467); Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, III, 271. 

109 DhahabI, Ta’rikh, VI, 94. 

110 BustI, 181 (No. 1436); Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, X, 109. 

111 Ibn Sa‘d, V, 280; DhahabI, Ta’rikh, VI, 112; Ibn al-Athir, Lubab, II, 263; Ibn Hajar, 
Tahdhib, VIII, 211. 

112 DhahabI, Ta’rikh, VI, 207; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, V, 102f. 

in Bukhari, Ta’rikh, IV, 169 (No. 2362); DhahabI, Ta’rikh, VI, 94. 

'« DhahabI, Ta’rikh, VI, 314; Bukhari, Ta’rikh, VIII, 142 (No. 2490). 


129 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


which were set alight there previously. He was promised by the Prophet 
that after conquering Palestine, he would receive Hebron and Bayt ‘Ay- 
nun (some sources mention also Bethlehem). In Ibn Sa‘d a version has 
been preserved of the bill of rights given by the Prophet to Tamim, which 
was copied by ‘All ibn Abi Talib. When Palestine was conquered, so it is 
told, ‘Umar fulfilled the Prophet’s promise and gave that region to Tamim 
al-Dari. Actually it appears that he was collector of land taxes ( kharaj) 
there. It is said that ‘Umar warned him against enslaving the local popu¬ 
lation or selling their property, and to be content solely with collecting 
taxes. The chroniclers and other writers of the Middle Ages maintain that 
those areas are occupied by the descendants of Tamim al-Dari ‘until this 
very day’. Among the traditions Tamim al-Dari related to the Prophet is 
the hadtth al-jasasa (an apocalyptic creature), who asked its companion 
details about the dates of Bet Shean, about the Sea of Galilee and the spring 
of Zoar. 115 


The tribes 

[202-221] From the above description of Muslim personalities, one 
learns that during this period most of them were tribesmen, apart from a 
comparatively small number of clients, the mawalT. The latter evidently 
served in administrative positions which undoubtedly involved writing 

115 Ibn Sa‘d, 1(2), 75, tells of the delegation of the Tamim clan, al-Dariyln, who came to the 
Prophet at the time of the Tabiik campaign, bearing gifts, and the Prophet immediately 
sold these gifts to a Jew for the sum of 8,000 dirhams. Tamim al-Dari had rights of 
possession (or so it appears) given him by the Byzantines on those two places ( qaryatayn, 
two villages: Hibra wa-bayt ‘ayniin). Abu Baler renewed the letter of rights after the death 
of the Prophet; see further ibid., VII(2), 129f. TabaranI, Mu'jam, I, 14, describes him as the 
prototype of a Bedouin fighter, who knew how to take good care of his horse, and quotes 
a hadlth in the name of the Prophet on the virtue of feeding one’s horse during the holy 
war. Bakri, 289; Ibn Hazm, Jamhara, 422; TayalisI, 229. Ibn ‘Asakir, III, 344—357, notes 
that he himself saw the document of the Daris ascribed to the Abbasid caliph al-Mustanjid 
bi’Uah (1160—1170), and quotes the version in which Bayt ‘ayniin and Bayt Ibrahim are 
spoken of, and points out that they are in Hebron ‘until this very day’ (around 1170), and 
they are a large group, called al-Dariyya. (One must remember that he is writing at a time 
when Hebron was in the hands of the Crusaders,) Ibid. , p. 345, he mentions that in 1092, 
in the days of Ghazall (that is, when he stayed in Jerusalem), the cadi of Jerusalem Abu 
Hatim al-Haraw! al-Hanafi, refused to recognise the validity of the Daris’ document, and 
then Ghazall said that the cadi was a heretic. See also: SuyutI, Khasa’is , II, 177f; III, 289; 
DhahabI, Ta’rtkh, II, 188ff; Suhayll, Ta'rif, lib; Samarqandi, Bustan, 100; BustI, 52 (No. 
353); KhalajI, III, 301: the al-Dar clan came from Yaman; Nawawi, I, 138f: some say his 
name was al-Dayri, from the word dayr (monastery), because before Islam, he was in a 
monastery; Qalqashandl, Subh, XIII, 120ff has the version of the letter of rights given to 
Tamim by the Prophet and which ‘Umar renewed; Maqrlzl, his treatise on Tamim 
al-Dari, in Matthews, JPOS, 19:150, 1939/40; and its Cairo edition, 1972; Ibn al-Athlr, 
Usd, II, 243; Mawsill, Wasa’il , 23b-24a (according to kitab al-madtna of ‘Askari); Ibn 
alqfawzl, Wafi’, I, 156; HalabI, II, 88; ‘Ulayml, 428f; Shibll, 42b; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhtb, I, 
51 If; idem, Isdba, I, 183f. 


130 



THE TRIBES [SECS. 202-235] 


and keeping accounts, drafting official documents, and so on. Some of 
these converted Muslims, like many similarly placed people in other 
regions of the Muslim world, were among those who laid the foundations 
of the new Arabic culture, especially in the sphere of historical writing and 
legal literature. The fact that there were a large number of tribesmen 
among the Muslim notables who settled in Palestine should not surprise 
us, for the Muslim conquest was in its essence the conquest of cultured 
countries by the Arab tribes. The number of clans and tribes from which 
these personalities stemmed was about thirty. It should be remembered 
that the ancient Arab sources preserved only the memory of those people 
who played active roles in the political and military life of the period. 
Many were forgotten, which was intentional, because in later generations, 
during Abbasid rule, a hostile attitude was adopted towards people of the 
Umayyad administration, apart from the fact that many of the chroniclers 
identified with the ‘Alids and were filled with antagonism towards Mu‘a- 
wiya and his heirs and circle of followers, regarded as the usurpers of the 
Prophet’s family. The possibility of being included in biographical com¬ 
pilations was mainly the lot of those personalities in the Umayyad era who 
provided information on the days of the Prophet or who taught others 
hadlth traditions attributed to the Prophet. Many of these traditions were 
not authentic at all and reflected attitudes prevalent during the lifetime of 
the conveyors or the desires and interests of various groups. In the light of 
these facts, there is little to glean from the rather archival list of names I 
have recorded above, with regard to the status of the tribes and their 
comparative influence, for not every tribe had talented individuals who 
could fill central political roles or take on military commands. Further¬ 
more, not every tribe had sufficient connections with the Damascene 
court to enable people of their rank to merit major governing positions, 
nor did every tribe have enough people who devoted themselves to 
collecting or inventing traditions. One can undoubtedly assume that in 
addition to those clans and tribes whose few members merited renown, 
there were many others in Palestine about whom we know nothing at all, 
and the tribes’ relative numerical strength and the extent of their authority 
cannot be surmised from biographical lists of Islamic personalities. 

We have already encountered the inter-tribal wars and witnessed 
something of the split between the north and the south, as conveyed in 
tribal traditions from generation to generation. We are sufficiently aware 
of the fact that this so-called geographical division did not comply with the 
reality as it existed at the time of the appearance of Islam, when a whole 
series of tribes which the traditions describe as having stemmed from the 
south, that is from the region of Yaman, were actually to be found in the 
area of Mecca and Medina or even farther north, along the Palestinian 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


border. A marked example of this is the Ansar tribes in Medina, the Aws 
and the Khazraj (the Qayla tribes or Banu Haritha), who according to their 
tradition (and there is no reason to doubt it), emigrated in the distant past 
from Yaman northward. 

The following are the ‘southern’ tribes whose offspring we find among 
the inhabitants of Palestine during this period: Khath’am; 115 Judham (I 
have already elaborated on this tribe); ‘Amila; 117 Ghassan; 118 Khawlan; 119 
Madhhij, and the clan within it, Zubayd; 120 Himyar (also Yaman in 
general) and the Sayban clan; 121 Kinda, and the clan of Banu ‘Amr. 122 
Khuza‘a; 123 Azd; 124 Quda‘a and the clan of Juhayna within it; 125 Ash‘ar; 
according to Ya‘qubl, writing in 892, this southern tribe were the majority 
(evidently among the Bedouin) in Tiberias (probably meaning the Tibe¬ 
rias region); 126 Lakhm, as the Judham, was to be found on the Palestinian 
border before the advent of Islam. 127 

Among the ‘northern’ tribes, we find the following represented: Kinana 
and its clan, Murra; 128 the Sulaym clan of Qays ‘ Aylan, which apparently 
lived in jund Urdunn; 129 Thaqlf, whose centre was Ta’if in the Hijaz, was 
certainly represented in the administration of Palestine during the time 
when Hajjaj ibn Yusuf, who was a member of their tribe, ruled the state; 
but we know that members of this tribe also lived in Trans-Jordan, in the 
Balqa’; 130 Banu Ghatafan and the clan of Murra within it; 131 Kilab, and 

116 See Ibn al-Kalbi (Caskel), 45f. 

1,7 Ibid., 53ff; it seems they were located mostly in jund Urdunn. 

118 See Watt, 112ff; Ibn al-Kalbi (Caskel), 35ff. They, too, seem to have lived mainly injund 
Urdunn. 

119 Ibn al-Kalbi (Caskel), 56f. 

120 Ibid., 61ff. 

12 < Ibid., 66ff. 

122 Ibid., 47ff. 

123 Watt, 83ff; Ibn al-Kalbi (Caskel), 39ff. 

129 Ibn al-Kalbi (Caskel), 41ff. 

125 Watt, 11 Of; Ibn al-Kalbi (Caskel), 73ff. 

126 Ya'qubi, Buldan, 327; Ibn al-Kalbi (Caskel), 66. 

127 Watt, 111; Ibn al-Kalbi (Caskel), 53ff. After some two-hundred years, we still find one of 
the important Muslim personalities in Palestine, of Tiberias, the writer Sulayman ibn 
Ahmad al-Tabarani (see below), claiming descent from the Banu Lakhm; see Ibn al- 
Jawzi, Muntazam, VII, 54 (sec. 73), who mentions that Lakhm is a tribe that lived in 
Yaman and in al-Sham, and its name is linked with that of Bethlehem (Bayt lakhm), the 
birthplace ofjesus. Similarly in Ibn T aghrl BardI, IV, 59, the name of the place is not Bayt 
lahm but Bayt lakhm, lest doubts should arise about the connection between Bethlehem 
and the Lakhm tribe. 

128 Watt, 83ff; Ibn al-Kalbi (Caskel), 6. 

129 Ibn al-Kalbi (Caskel), 11 ff. 

130 Ibn Khallikan, VII, 110, in the article on Yusuf b. ‘Umar al-Thaqafi, the son of a cousin of 
Hajjaj; when Yazld ibn al-Walid became caliph, after al-Walid b. Yazld was murdered, 
this Yusuf fled to the Balqa’, where his tribe were living; see about this tribe Watt, 101 ff; 
Ibn al-Kalbi (Caskel), 16f; see also Kister, JSAI, 1:1, 1979. 

131 Watt, 91 ff; Ibn al-Kalbi (Caskel), 19ff. 


132 



THE TRIBES [SECS. 202-235] 


Banu ‘Uqayl within it, from the federation of tribes ‘Amir b. Sa‘sa‘a; m 
Tamim; 133 Taghlib, the tribe that was Christian during the time of the 
conquest and lived on the border of Palestine; 134 Hudhayl. 135 

[222-223] At first glance, it seems as if Palestine was equally divided 
between northern and southern tribes. But according to the evidence in 
Tabari it appears that at least by the end of the Damascene caliphate the 
Yamani tribesmen had the upper hand. According to the same source, 
most of the Umayyad army in al-Sham (and one should bear in mind that 
army meant tribes) were the Yamaniyya, the southerners. 136 In the fore¬ 
going lists, two important elements are not included and these are the 
Banu Quraysh on the one hand and the descendants of the Ansar of 
Medina (Aws and Khazraj) on the other. In theory, the first were ‘north¬ 
erners’ and the others ‘southerners’. Banu Quraysh were naturally in¬ 
volved in administration, and when we find them (particularly the clan of 
Jumah) in Palestine, they are generally there more as individuals who have 
been given ruling positions, or who have come there for religious reasons. 
One should note the small number of the Ansar; they are almost un¬ 
mentioned among the eminent figures in Palestine. 

Ya'qubI, who as has been mentioned, wrote his book in 892, notes that 
in jund Filastm there was a mixture of tribes - Lakhm, Judham, ‘Amila, 
Kinda, Qays and Kinana - one can imagine that this is copied from an old 
version, which was correct at the time of the Umayyads. At any rate, this 
list conforms to the one (a much more extensive list) presented above, 
which was the result of a study of the names of personalities. That 
Ya'qubl’s list can be considered limited and does not entirely reflect the 
real situation, not even in the days of the Umayyads, is proven by the 
papyri of Nessana from the second half of the seventh century, in which no 
less than 59 (!) clans, as well as two tribes, the Judham (Goudam), and 
Qays, are mentioned. The tribes evidently found Palestine very profit¬ 
able, preferring to settle there rather than in Iraq. This may have been 
enhanced by the benefits enjoyed by the people of al-Sham, which was 
borderland country subject to Byzantine raids and which also served as a 
base for raids into the latter’s territory. Thus we find in Tabari that 

132 Ibn al-Kalbl (Caskel), 13ff. In the tenth and eleventh centuries, we find information about 
their political and military rise. 

133 Watt, 137ff; Ibn al-Kalbl (Caskel), 7ff; and see Kister JESHO, 3:113, 1965. 

134 Ibn al-Kalbl (Caskel), 27f. 

135 Watt, 90; Ibn al-Kalbl (Caskel), 7. 

136 Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 1775; and see also two unidentified manuscripts printed by Hinds in 
Abhath, 3:24, 1971, containing lists (partial; speaking of participants in the battle of Siffin 
on Mu'awiya's side) of tribes in Palestine. To the list of‘northern’ tribes who lived in 
Palestine the Taym (al-Ribab) must also be evidently added, who claimed descent from 
the ancient federation of tribes of Khuzayma-Asad. Ibn Hazm, Jamhara, 175, 180, 
mentions two clans who belonged to the Banu Khuzayma (Asad): Ja'wana b. Shaytan b. 


133 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


pressure was put on Caliph Marwan b. al-Hakam to fulfil his promise to 
the Banu Kinda in al-Sham to allow them to settle in Trans-Jordan (in the 
Balqa’), and that this area should be the source of their livelihood.* 37 
[224] The period of the Umayyads was undoubtedly the golden age of 
the Arab tribes who penetrated into Palestine with the Muslim conquest. 
The leaders of Islam tried to protect the tribes from assimilating to the 
local populations and to maintain their traditional way of life, with the 
addition of the new Islamic element. These Arab tribes, both those who 
had formerly lived on the borders of Palestine and those who came to it 
within the framework of the Muslim army, were a separate entity of the 
population of the country. One must remember that the term ‘arab during 
the Middle Ages meant Bedouin, people of the tribes. These tribes had a 
common homeland, the Arabian peninsula, even if their ancestors had 
emigrated from there many generations earlier. On the other hand, there 
was also a non-Arab population living in the Arabian peninsula, who were 
neither nomads nor lived in tribes, and who were not of tribal origins. 
They were farmers, merchants, craftsmen; Jews, Christians, Persians and 
members of various sects. Religion was not a sign of being non-Arab, for 
there were Arab tribes who had taken on Christianity, such as the Banu 
Taghlib, but under Islamic rule they were not considered ahl al-kitab 
(people of the book). It is well known that for generations prior to Islam, a 
process of Arab settlement and abandonment of the nomadic way of life 
began and an urban Arab population grew up, such as that in Mecca and 
Medina. They were considered Arabs, however, because of their nomadic 
past. Another identifying factor, naturally, was their common language, 
Arabic, which despite the differences between various dialects was quite 
uniform and understandable to the members of all the tribes and spoken by 
them. But their chief characteristic was nomadism - the culture of the 
camel. Under Islam, nomadism was considered the most natural and 
common state of the Arabs, and as I have said, the word ‘arab meant 
Bedouin. Thus we find in the first century of Islamic rule almost complete 
synonymity between the terms Muslim, Arab, nomad, tribesman and 
horseman in the service of Islam; although there are exceptions to this rule, 
it applies in most cases. To be an Arab at that time meant to belong to the 
ruling class, enjoying privileges that were bequeathed to successive gener¬ 
ations. Alongside the prerogatives, however, there was also the obligation 

Wahb, and ‘Amr ibn Kinana, who lived in jund Filastln. About the latter, he notes that 
they are very few. See on Khuzayma: Watt, 87ff. 

137 Ya‘qubi, Buldatt, 329; he also mentions Judham, who according to him lived in the region 
of Bet Guvrin, in the neighbourhood of the Dead Sea. Nessana, 340f. On the question of 
the Greek transliteration of Arabic names see: Isserlin, Annual, Leeds Univ. Oriental 
Society, 7:17, 1975; on the preference of al-Sham, see: Shaban, Islamic History, 74, 125. 
Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 487 (Husayn b. Nimr’s request); according to Baladhuri, Ansab, V, 


134 



THE TRIBES [SECS. 202-235] 

to serve the creed that brought all this about and to fight for it, for it was 
this belief that gave the Arabs the dominion of an enormous empire. 138 

[225] Therefore it is possible to conceive of a tolerant attitude towards 
non-believers who were not Arabs, such as the Persians, even if there was 
some doubt as to their being ‘people of the book’ and even if they could 
actually be considered almost idolaters. For the Arabs, however, Islam 
was absolutely mandatory. If these Arabs were from among the ‘people of 
the book’ (speaking mainly of the Christians), it would be possible to 
compromise, and they would be given time to accept Islam, if not in this 
generation then in the next. The Arabs who were idol-worshippers, on the 
other hand, were given only one choice - Islam or death - ‘a choice 
dictated only to the Arab idolaters’, in Abu Yusuf s words. Alongside the 
constraint to accept Islam, the leaders of Islam also launched an edu¬ 
cational campaign among the tribes, evidence of which is found in the 
account of the offspring of the b. Qurayza, the Jews of Medina, Mu¬ 
hammad b. Ka‘b al-QurazI: 

Five men of the Ansar already knew the Koran by heart in the days of the Prophet: 
Mu‘adh b. Jabal, ‘Ubada b. al-Samit, Ubayy b. Ka‘b, Abu Ayyub and Abu’l- 
Darda’. In the days of‘Umar, Yazld b. Abu Sufyan [Mu'awiya’s brother, who was 
the commander of the Muslim army in Palestine and Syria until he died of an 
illness] wrote: in al-Sham there are many tribes and they need someone to teach 
them the Koran and the laws. So ‘Umar requested three people to help him in this 
matter . . . and Mu‘adh, ‘Ubada and Abu’l-Darda’ volunteered. And ‘Umar 
commanded them: Start in Hims, and if you are satisfied, one of you shall go to 
Damascus and one to [jund] Filastln. ‘Ubada remained in Hims while Abu’l- 
Darda’ went off to Damascus, and Mu‘adh to Filastln; but Mu‘adh died in the year 
of the ‘Imwas plague; and so ‘Ubada went afterwards to Filastln [and remained 
there] until he died . 139 

[226-229] The Arabs were the military, the horsemen, and they had no 
responsibilities towards any other sectors of the population. They were 
not farmers, which they considered a demeaning profession only taken up 
by the Nabat (a collective term for Aramaic-speaking villagers, and this 
does not refer to the Nabateans, who lived in southern Palestine in 

128, the episode regarding the Balqa’ referred to the clan of Sakun, of Kinda, their 
spokesman being Malik Ibn Hubayra. 

138 See on the matter of the Banu Taghlib: Abu Yusuf, 144: the Banu Taghlib, who were 
Christians, had a tax imposed on them, unlike on the ahl al-kitab but like on the Muslims, 
that is sadaqa, but double the sum which the Muslims paid. Mazyad b. Hudayr, the first 
whom ‘Umar sent to collect the sadaqa (an yu'ashshira) from the Band Taghlib, reported: 
‘he ordered me to put pressure on the Christians, the Band Taghlib, saying: they are an 
Arab tribe, not of the people of the book, and should accept Islam’. According to him, 
‘Umar imposed on the Christian Taghlib tribe the condition that they would not be 
permitted to raise their children as Christians; and see also Ibn Abl Shayba, III, 197ff; and 
see the comprehensive discussion in the excellent article by Poliak, REI , 12:35, 1938, 
which has served as the basis for the discussion here. 

139 Abu Yusuf, 81; Ibn ‘Asakir, VII, 210f. 


135 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


previous generations). Their approach to farming is expressed in a hadith 
attributed to the Prophet, brought in the name of Thawban, one of 
Muhammad’s freedmen, who settled in Palestine: ‘do not settle in the 
villages, for he who abides in villages it is as if he abides in graves’. 140 There 
is no doubt that at the outset, the leaders of Islam, starting with ‘Umar ibn 
al-Khattab, did not approve of imitating the urban and village customs of 
the subdued populations, whether in the economic or in the religious- 
cultural spheres. There was a tendency to avoid anything which would 
involve real settlement. In Kufa, for instance, at the military and urban 
base set up by the Muslims in Iraq, tribesmen were not permitted to build 
themselves proper houses; only reed ( qasab ) huts were allowed. Only after 
an enormous fire broke out and destroyed everything were they allowed 
to build houses of bricks - on condition however that they did not build 
more than three rooms per person (that is, per family). 141 In Jerusalem, the 
Arabs were forbidden to enter churches, particularly those in the Kidron 
valley; it is said that ‘Umar prayed at first in the Church of St Mary but 
regretted it afterwards. 142 Particularly strict was the rule that Muslims 
should not take on the praying customs of the infidels. It is told that 
‘Ubada b. Samit, when he was in Jerusalem, saw a man praying in the 
mosque and putting his shoe on the right side (or perhaps the left side), and 
he castigated him for behaving like ahl al-kitab, people of the book (?). 143 

[230-232] Nevertheless, we hear of considerable interest on the part of 
the Umayyad caliphs and their retainers on estates in Palestine. Of 
‘Amr b. al-‘As, one of the commanders of the invasion of Palestine and 
Egypt, we read that he had an estate ( day'a ) injund Filastln, in Sab‘, that is 
in the region of Beersheba, where he stayed when the war between ‘All 
and Mu'awiya began, in his palace in a place called al-‘Ajlan. 144 

Mu'awiya also had estates in Palestine. It is told that when ‘Abd al- 
Malik became caliph, he bought the al-Khadra (the green palace), from 
Mu‘awiya’s grandson, Khalid b. Yazid, a building which housed the 

140 See the saying in Bukhari, Adab, 85; SuyutI, La’dlt, I, 478; ‘Ajlunl, Kashf, I, 262; II, 355 
(and see there: the people of the villages are people of catastrophe); ‘Azlzl, III, 461. 

141 BuraqI, 103. 

142 See Musharraf, 90b; WasitI, 21; however this ban can be interpreted in two ways; 
forbidding the Arabs to mix with the local population and preventing damage to the 
protected peoples’ holy places. A hadith in the name of the Prophet forbids entry to the 
dhimmls’ homes or houses of prayer without their permission, or to offend their wives, as 
long as they pay the taxes as due - see ‘Azlzl, II, 124. 

143 ‘Ulayml, 253f; see a hadith which forbids ikhtisar , i.e., placing hands on the hips during 
prayer in the manner of the Jews (?), in ‘Azlzl, II, 128; and censure of people who pray 
alone loudly and lift up their hands in the manner of the Jews, a custom called taqlif in 
TurtushI, 59, in the name of Abu ‘All ‘Abd al-Rahman b. al-Qasim al-‘UtaqI (who died in 
Egypt in 191/807, see GAL S I, 299), who was citing Abu Salma b. ‘Abd al-Rahman b. 
‘Awn (who died in 94/713 in Medina - see Ibn Sa‘d, V, 115f£). 

144 Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 2967, 2972; DInawarl, 157. In the Middle Ages, the region of Beer- 

136 



THE TRIBES [SECS. 202-235] 

administration, and for which he paid forty thousand dinars. Apart from 
this, he bought four other estates in the four junds of al-Sham; in jund 
Filastln, he chose ‘Imwas and in jund Urdunn he chose ‘Qasr Khalid’ 
(evidently a palace which had belonged to that Khalid). ‘Abd al-Malik also 
pursued a policy of confining units of tribal horsemen to the cities, 
particularly the coastal towns, and it seems that this involved the grant of 
rights to these tribes to a part of the income dervied from taxes. 145 This 
type of right was called ma’kala, and was evidently expressed in the 
authority to collect taxes due from the inhabitants (non-Muslims) of that 
place. These arrangements were evidently introduced shortly after the 
conquest by ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab, when he regulated the relationship 
between the Muslims and the local populations. He initiated the lists of 
taxes and subsidies to be paid and determined how much each clan or tribe 
would receive. 146 

[233-235] One can surmise, when speaking of estates that were ‘bought’ 
by the Umayyad rulers, that the possession right on these estates was 
passed on with the change in leadership, and that just as the Abbasids had 
taken over what had formerly been held by the Umayyads, they also took 
possession of their estates. We find that in the tenth century AD, ‘estates of 
the Ikhshidids’ in Palestine are mentioned, as well as their manager Ibn 
al-Harith; also Abu ‘All al-Husayn b. Ahmad b. Rustum al-Madhara’i, 
who was responsible for the taxes ( kharaj) in Egypt on behalf of al- 
Muqtadir (from 8 April 919) had a day‘a named Munyat Hisham, near 
Tiberias. One can assume that these, and others which are not mentioned, 
were some sort of permanent ‘government property’. 147 

We have seen that the Muslim chroniclers have left us important infor¬ 
mation concerning the involvement of the Palestinian tribes in the internal 

sheba was known by the name o{wadi’l-sab‘— seeTadmuri, 61a (quoting Musharraf), and 
in the edition of Matthews, JPOS, 17 (1937), 136. 

145 Ibn ‘Asakir, 11(1), 133; VI, 185. Mu‘awiya acquired two estates for himself, al-Batnan, in 
the Ascalon area, which he said was a place of moderate rains, and not arid like al-Darum 
nor wet like Caesarea, see Jahshiyarl, 26; cf. Kister, Wiet Memorial Volume, 43f, n. 51. 

146 Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 487: theBanuKinda (theSakun clan) request for themselves as ma’kala 
southern Trans-Jordan (the Balqa’), see above, Abu'l-Fida’, Mukhtasar, I, 160: ‘Umar 
introduced the lists: dawawin. It appears that when the sources speak of‘acquiring’ estates 
they are actually referring to buying the possession rights. It is possible that these rights 
were also linked with living in the place, and one can surmise that the purchaser would 
then proceed to build himself a house, or a palace, according to his rank and social status. 
On the other hand, it is told that Talha ibn ‘Ubaydallah bought land in Bet Shean in the 
days of the Prophet — see Hassan b. Thabit, II, 279; Ibn ‘Abd al-Barr, Isffab, II, 764: 
therefore the Prophet called him al-fayyad, the spendthrift, a word which does not indicate 
very strong objections. 

147 Ibn Khallikan, III, 136; the estate of al-Madhara’i: Tha'alibI, La(d’if 231 f: there was a 
famous spring on this estate which habitually gushed forth for seven consecutive years, 
then stopping for seven consecutive years. This same story is found in Qazwlni, ‘Ajd’ib, 
270. 


137 



ISLAM STRIKES ROOTS 


strife within the caliphate. Less is known of the participation in external 
struggles. But there is no doubt that the tribes did take a part in the wars 
which were conducted in distant lands, such as in Central Asia. From the 
little that is known to us about this, I would reiterate the fact mentioned 
above, that of the participation of the tribes from jund Filastln, under the 
command of Mus‘ab b. ‘Amr of the Banu Khuza'a, in the war against the 
Turks in Central Asia in AH 119 (AD 737). 148 One can imagine that the 
tribes took an active part in the campaigns against the Byzantines as well. 
Concerning the active participation of the tribes of al-Sham in the North 
African wars we learn from Ibn ‘Abd al-Hakam, speaking of the days of 
the last Umayyads (al-Walld b. Yazid, Yazid b. al-Walld, and Marwan b. 
Muhammad). At that time, tribes of the two junds, Filastln and Urdunn, 
also settled in Spain. Tribesmen of Urdunn settled in Riyya (Reiyo), 
which was then named after them, as Urdunn, while the tribes from jund 
Filastln settled in Shadhuna (Sidonia) and this too was named after them, 
as Filastln. 149 

148 Tabari, Ta’rtkh, II, 1609. 

149 Ibn ‘Abd al-Hakam, 223f; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, V, 491 (under the year AH 139/AD 743), 
cf. Levi-Provemjal, Histoire, I, 44f; Shaban, Islamic History, I, 152. 


138 




The local population and 

THE MUSLIMS 


[236] Until now, we have followed the course of the conquest and the 
events of the first century of Muslim rule in Palestine. These have been 
described in chronological order, with the exception of a few issues, such 
as the question of the religious status of Jerusalem, or the administrative 
division of the country. These same questions, though they extend 
beyond the chronological framework ending with the year 750, warrant 
discussion in the context of the first hundred years, when the principal 
foundations were established, to remain valid until the end of the period 
we are dealing with. Therefore at this point, before discussing the political 
and military events that occurred in Palestine after 750, it is appropriate 
that we pause to discuss in general terms the question of the relationship 
between Muslims and non-Muslims, that is, between the rulers and the 
ruled, in Palestine. 

We shall try to make our way through the sources, which are at times 
very sparse, dealing with the composition of the population and the status 
of the cities of Palestine. Although most of the facts in this sphere were also 
determined in the first hundred years, during the Damascene caliphate, we 
shall have to go beyond the confines of this period and study these matters 
as they appear over the course of our entire chronological framework. An 
important incentive in choosing this path lies in the fact that the infor¬ 
mation available to us gradually increases the further we approach the 
eleventh century AD. Due to the conservative character of the social and 
administrative pattern of those times, the facts and findings of the eleventh 
century can shed light on the entire period, beginning with the conquest. 
In choosing this path, I also bear in mind the example of distinguished 
Muslim historians of the early Middle Ages, who did not hesitate to 
interrupt the continuity of the chronological account in order to devote 


139 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


space and effort to the writing of a separate discourse on a subject they 
considered important. 


The protected people 

We have seen above how the attitude of Islam towards the subjugated 
population was first expressed, particularly towards the Jews and the 
Christians, according to precedents established by Muhammad during the 
Tabuk expedition. We have seen a further expression of this in ‘Umar ibn 
al-Khattab’s treaty with the inhabitants of Jerusalem. With regard to the 
status ofthejews ofPalestine, no significant change took place. Within the 
context of the Byzantine Christian empire, they were considered inferior 
to the Christian inhabitants. From now on, they would be inferior to the 
Muslims. The new element naturally was the changed status of the Chris¬ 
tians, who were in this respect now equal to the Jews. The whole popu¬ 
lation ofPalestine now became the protected people of the Muslims; in 
other words, the Arab tribes who made up the Muslim army were the 
rulers of the urban and rural populations of Palestine. This was the 
situation until the Abbasid revolution, when the role of the tribes was 
taken over by the battalions of the Caliphate, in which the Arab element 
would gradually give way to the Turks, the Persians and other Muslims 
who were not Arabs. The governing body and its administration would 
gradually pass into the hands of those elements as well, and religious 
personnel, men learned in law and judges would no longer be exclusively 
Arabs, as was generally the case during the period of the Umayyads. 

In theory, the Muslims did not discriminate between Jews and Chris¬ 
tians. If in the events described below we find that at times there existed 
collaboration and affiliation of Muslims with Jews against the Christians, 
or vice versa, this would not be the outcome of principle but the result of 
politico-historical .circumstances which we shall discuss separately. 

The Muslim traditions are mixed in their attitudes towards protected 
people. There are those which praise justice and tolerance towards pro¬ 
tected people and others which are steeped in contempt - particularly 
towards the Jews. For example, there is the story of the governor who 
exiled the protected people of Mount Lebanon because they did not pay 
their taxes, and even killed some of them. The cadi al-Awza‘I criticised 
these deeds harshly in writing and promised the perpetrator that he would 
suffer severe punishment on the Day ofjudgment, in accordance with the 
words of the Prophet who warned against using a heavy hand against ‘the 
people of the agreement’. On the other hand, there is a tradition in 
Dhahabi which relates that the angel Gabriel refused to shake Mu¬ 
hammad’s hand before he washed it, because he had touched the hand 


140 



THE PROTECTED PEOPLE [SECS. 236-240] 

of a Jew. There are sayings attributed to Muhammad, or to ‘All, to the 
effect that the Jews and the Christians do not deserve to be greeted. 1 

[237] However, the general approach in Muslim religious literature is 
that the rights of the protected people should be respected as determined 
by the precedents and sayings of the Prophet and the early caliphs, which 
religious law recognises as legal and sanctified by God. Compared with 
what was happening at the same time in the Christian world, we find here 
a climate of decency and legality. In the early period we are dealing with, 
the caliphs were well aware of the fact that protecting the rights of the 
dhimmis was of importance to the Muslims, first and foremost from the 
economic point of view. As stated by ‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘Aziz to one of 
his governors: 

do not destroy a synagogue or church ( kanisa, bi'a) nor a house of Zoroastrians 
whose existence has been ensured by the peace treaty; but also no synagogue [or 
church] or house of Zoroastrians shall be built anew. The sheep should not be 
dragged to the slaughterer and one must not sharpen the slaughtering knife on the 
head of the cattle that is being slaughtered . 2 

[238] At a comparatively later stage the traditional rules relating to the 
dhimmis were collected into one document called ‘the conditions of 
‘Umar’. There is no doubt that the intention here is to the caliph ‘Umar ibn 
al-Khaattab (and not ‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘Aziz, as claimed by some schol¬ 
ars whose opinions are today accepted by many). The basic principles of 
these traditional rules were decided upon according to precedents from the 
days of ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab, and we find them in treaties of surrender 
which were preserved in Arab historical writings. I have already men¬ 
tioned above the treaties that were signed in Tabuk and Jerusalem. It is 
worth noting some other documents that are characteristic of the early 
Muslim period and are stamped with the mark of authenticity: the surren- 

1 See comprehensive discussions with references to sources on the state of the protected 
people in Islam: Goitein, Jews and Arabs, 62. Strauss (Ashtor), Hirschler Memorial Volume: 
73; Goldziher, REJ, 28(1894): 75. Abel, RIDA, 2:1, 1949. See Baladhurl, Futuh, 162; 
DhahabI, Mizan, II, 232; Naysaburl, Rau/da, 458 (‘All said that it was not worth while 
greeting ajew). See the tradition which recommends that a portion oisadaqa and khums go 
to the poor of the dhimmis: Ibn Abl Shayba, III, 178; ‘Azlzl, I, 127: ‘if you wish to bless a 
Jew or a Christian, bless him: may God multiply your money, because his money is useful 
to us through the jizya, or after he dies without heirs’. Ibid., I, 384, in the name of the 
Prophet: ‘clean your courtyards, and be not like the Jews who are dirty and their courtyards 
are dirty’. And counter this, the story of the cadi, ‘Abdallah b. ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Hujayra 
al-Khawlanl, who was cadi in Egypt from 709 until August 717, with intervals: after 
‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘Aziz dismissed him from his post, the Jews made a claim against him of 
money he had borrowed from them, and ‘Umar forced him to pay because he had no 
written confirmation of clearance of the debt. Fortunately for him, he succeeded in 
bringing witnesses that he had paid the debt. See Kindi, 332f; Ibn Hajar, Raf, 284. One can 
cite further instances in both directions, the good and the bad. 

2 Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 1372. 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


der agreement of Najran (of the Prophet’s time), the surrender agreement 
of Damascus, and ‘Umar’s pact with the people of al-Sham and the 
surrender agreement of Lod. 3 

[239-240] The underlying concept of Islam regarding thejews and the 
Christians is that they are ‘people of the Book’, ahl al-kitab. The meaning is 
not simply that they are peoples with a book. The intention of this 
by-name was that each of the two religions is an umma, that is, a group of 
people to whom, in earlier generations, God ‘handed down’ through the 
medium of messengers (the prophets) the Book, a book which is in its 
essence one and the same, and identical with the Koran. To these people 
the Koran promised that the Muslims would no longer fight them, on 
condition that they submit and pay their taxes, as we have seen above. 4 
Non-belligerence, or the right to survive, was bound up, according to this 
ideology, with foregoing all means of self-defence and the acceptance of 
protection from or under the aegis ( dhimma) of the Muslims. This was the 
condition under which they would receive protection, aman. Security was 
given to men who paid the tax, to their dependants and property. In 
addition, they would have to be submissive, that is to consider themselves 
inferior to Muslims and to act accordingly. They would have to differ 
from the Muslims in their outward appearance and some other aspects 
which I shall explain in detail below. They would be permitted to fulfil the 

3 See doubts as to the attribution of the conditions of the dhimmis to ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab 
(and even to someone from the Muslim army command in his time): Tritton, Caliphs, 10, 
12. See the articles Dhimma (by C. Cahen) and Aman (by J. Schacht) in EP and the 
references in these two articles. Finkel, JQR, NS 23(1932/3), 271 is of the opinion that 
‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘AzTz wished to act on the example of‘Umar 1 and hence he was the first 
of the Umayyad caliphs who renewed the decrees of the latter, particularly with regard to 
dress. The treaty of Najran: Baladhuri, Futiih, 63-65. The treaty of surrender of Damascus 
(in the name of Abu ‘Ubayda): Ibn ‘Asakir, 504f. ‘Umar’s treaty with the people of 
al-Sham: ibid., 563f. The treaty of Lod: Tabari, Ta’nkh, I, 2407. The document called ‘The 
conditions of‘Umar’, a compendium oflaws relating to the legal status of the dhimmis, is 
certainly comparatively late, and its earliest version is evidently that in Shafi‘1 (died in 820), 
Uwm, IV, 118ff (see the English translation: Tritton, Caliphs, 12fl); see the version of 
Qalqashandi, Subh, XIII, 378; see also Shayzarl, Nihaya, 106fand the supplement ibid. , 120; 
a Hebrew version of 38 ‘conditions of‘Umar’, as translated by Jacob Skandari, the Rabbi of 
Alexandria, from an unidentified Arabic source, is included in Joseph Sambari’s chronicle 
(the second half of the seventeenth century), see in Fischel, Zion, 5(1940) 209ff. As to 
‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘Az!z, it seems that the major innovation he introduced was equality 
between the Arab and the non-Arab Muslims; nevertheless the non-Arabs still had to pay 
land taxes on their estates, because their land was fay’ (a gift from God to the Muslims) and 
the owner of property, that is the Muslim state, was entitled to compensation; see: Gibb, 
Arabica, 2(1955), 3. 'Fay' means what they [the Muslims] obtain by peace treaties, namely 
the jizya and khardj', see Yahya b. Adam, 23. 

4 The expression ‘an yadin , in that verse was explained by Kister, Arabica, 11:272, 1964, as 
being: according to their ability, or their profits. This explanation is preferable to others, 
because it suits the accepted policy afterwards (though it was not always enacted), which 
introduced three categories for the payment of the poll-tax: three to four dinars per annum 
for the rich, two for middle-range incomes, and one dinar for the poor (or their equivalent 


142 



THE TAXES [SECS. 241-265] 


obligations of their religion, under certain restricted conditions; they 
would have no military or political duties, nor serve in public or govern¬ 
mental posts. Subsequently, inheritance regulations would also develop. 5 


The taxes 

[241] Taxation policy had not yet been formulated in the days of the 
Prophet, not even during the great conquests. At the time, the Muslims 
would impose a global sum in one place, and in another collect a certain 
portion of the income in agricultural produce or textiles. Each place had its 
arrangements, as we have seen in the Prophet’s covenants and have learned 
from the treaty with Jerusalem. The terms jizya and kharaj still indicated a 
tax in general, and only in the following generations would the former 
mean a head-tax and the latter a land-tax. 6 

in dirhams). See for instance Ibn ‘Abd al-Hakam, 152ff, who mentions these sums in the 
name of Aslam, ‘Umar’s freedman; cf. Stern, Byzantion , 20(1950), 239. 

5 We have already come across the demand to hand over arms and horses in the discussion of 
the Prophet’s treaties. Certainly the two are tied together in an inseverable knot: the 
acceptance of the Muslims’ protection and the right to survive in exchange for the payment 
of a tax on the one hand, and the relinquishing of any means of self defence on the other. See 
also the treaty of Najran in Baladhuri, Futiih , 64; there it says that the people of Najran will 
submit their arms, horses and all riding beasts; and see the treaty of Damascus (al-Sham), in 
Ibn ‘ Asakir, I, 505: ‘we shall not ride on saddles and we shall not keep any arms or make any 
in our houses, and shall not wear swords’. See also another version (’for the Christians in 
the land of al-Sham’), ‘we shall not keep arms nor swords and will not bear them at home 
nor on journeys in the land of the Muslims’. 

6 It appears that the earliest stage in the development of tax laws in Islam after Muhammad’s 
death is reflected in the events of the tribes’ first raid beyond the Euphrates, when a 
surrender treaty (sulh) was signed between Khalid ibn al-Walid and thejewish population 
of Babylonia. According to Ibn Sa‘d, VH(2), 121, this sulh was signed with ‘Saluba ibn 
Busbahra, who lived on the banks of the Euphrates, in exchange for the payment of one 
thousand dirhams’. The time: Safar, of the year AD 12, or May AD 633. According to 
Tabari, the tax was ten thousand dinars, and this in addition to kharza of the Persian king 
(Kisra); this sum would have to be collected chiefly by the imposition of a poll-tax of four 
dirhams; see Tabari, Ta’rikli, I, 2018f, 2049f, 2165f, 2182f; Baladhuri, Futiih , 242f, 253, 457; 
Jahiz, ‘Uthmaniya, 212; Ya‘qubl, Ta’rikh , II, 176; Yahyab. Adam, 34f; DhahabI, Ta'rikh, II, 
5; Ibn Kathlr, Biddya, VI, 343; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil , II, 384, 392; Yaqut, Bulddn, I, 484, 
BuraqI, 140. Cf. Caetani, Annali, 11(2), 971, n. 4, who compares the kharza and the kharaj 
kisrd in the chronicle of the ninth century of Ibn Khurdadhbih, and see also Caetani, ibid ., 
173. See the detailed discussion on the identity of Saluba (= §alova, a Syriac-Aramaic word 
meaning crucifier) in Gil, Tarbiz, 48(1978/9), 52f. One can assume that the Arabic kharaj is 
none other than the Persian-Aramaic kargd, and not khoregia as is explained in EP, IV, 1030, 
and as was also believed by Henning, Orientalia , NS 4:291, 1935. It is interesting that in the 
neighbourhood of the eleventh century, an Iraqi source is still using the term tasq (tasqa in 
the Talmud) as meaning a land tax, and not the term kharaj\ see: al-kitab al-hawi lH-a‘md\ 
al-sultduiyya (MS Paris, Ar. 2462), in Cahen, AIEO, 10(1952), 333. As to jizya, which 
meant in later generations specifically poll-tax, 1 believe that this too is Aramaic in its 
origins, from the rootjjzry, which is found also in the Talmudic sources and its meaning is 
income, payment, and not from the Arabic root jzw (to recompense) as is commonly 
believed. The payments made by the Byzantines to the Muslims according to peace 
settlements (or armistice) between them were also called jizya. This was money paid by the 


143 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


[242-243] In those areas that were under Byzantine rule (Palestine, 
Syria, Egypt) we find a clause relating to taxes in all the letters of protec¬ 
tion and surrender agreements which have been preserved in the sources; 
but we generally do not find any specific details as to how the payments 
would be made, and one can discern the tendency to collect a global sum 
from each town. In this connection it is worth noting the tradition pre¬ 
served in Ibn ‘Abd al-Hakam: if a man died in a village on which a global 
tax has been imposed, rather than a tax on each individual (jizya musammah 
‘ald’l-qarya), the dead man’s land would be given to the village. If, 
however, the jizya was a certain sum imposed on each head, the land 
would be given to the Muslims. In the continuation, it says that ‘Umar ibn 
‘Abd al-‘Az!z introduced a law that the jizya would be imposed on every 
head and not on the land. Here the chronicler comments that the intention 
was to the ahl al-dhimma (that is to the protected people, Jews and Chris¬ 
tians); and he continues by saying that essentially the method of collecting 
taxes from the Egyptian population (al-Qibt, the Copts) remained as it 
was under Byzantine dominion — they would collect taxes according to the 
size of the population in every village. The elders (‘uraja’, mariit [read: 
rndziit, from the Greek meizones], ru’asa’) would be called together to 
estimate the area of land cultivated by the inhabitants of the village. 
Afterwards a general assembly of the district ( kura = khora ) would be held; 
at this stage they would deduct the donations to the churches and other 
public institutions and the expenses for housing units of the Muslim army. 
Then they would decide on the extent of the tax to be imposed on the 
craftsmen and the hired people who lived in those villages, according to 
their ability to pay ( ihtimal ) and the tax to be imposed on the jaliya 
(literally: the exiles; the expression is undoubtedly parallel to xenoi, aliens), 
the mature and the married living in these villages, according to their 
ability to pay. The remainder of the khardj would be imposed on the 
villagers themselves, corresponding to their sowing plans and their ability 
to pay (‘ala qadri taqatihim). 1 This tradition clearly implies that in the main 
they would impose a general tax on the town, and the organisation of the 
distribution of this sum would have to be carried out by the dhimmls 
themselves. 


emperor when he felt too weak to fight; cf. what happened in the days of the Fatimid caliph 
al-Mu‘izz: Stern, Byzatition, 20 (1950), 239. 

7 Ibn ‘Abd al-Hakam, 152f. The term jaliya, intended to be applied to people living in a 
village who are not locally born, has in the course of generations become a synonym of 
jizya, in its later meaning, that of poll-tax; see what is said in the version of the conditions in 
Sambarl, Fischel, Zion, 5(1940), 212: ‘and whoever dies of them in the same year a portion 
of his inheritance shall be taken as the part which has passed of this year’ (that is, they would 
pay for the months during which he was still alive); strangers who came to a town ‘may 
stay there four months without having to pay any tax’. This version evidently also reflects 


144 



THE TAXES [SECS. 241-265] 


The Byzantine tradition in the matter of taxation, as preserved in the 
first generations of Muslim rule in Palestine, can be seen in the papyri of 
Nessana. The poll-tax is called there epikeptialion, and the land tax is called 
the demosia, which is the dimusya in Talmudic literature. On the other 
hand, in one place there is mention of a payment of six solidi, the equivalent 
of the Muslim dinar which appeared later (some 4.2 grams of gold). I am 
inclined to believe that it was a payment on account of the general sum 
imposed on the town. 

As to the roots of this system of lump payments, one can indeed be 
impressed by its continuity from Byzantine times onward, as described by 
Ibn ‘Abd al-Hakam and as is perhaps discernible in the papyri of Nessana. 
But we have seen this system also in the treaties of the Prophet himself, 
and one can add what was said of the agreement with the Christians in the 
city ofNajran in the southern part of the Arabian peninsula: ‘The master of 
the town and the judge (?) in it ( al-sayyid wa’l-'aqib) came to Muhammad, 
both on behalf of the people ofNajran, and made peace for 2,000 hullas, 
1,000 in Safar and 1,000 in Rajab, each hulla weighing one ounce. 8 

[244-245] Direct evidence of the collection of land taxes in Palestine is 
supplied by a document from Nessana, which is a receipt for the land tax, 
dating from about the end of the seventh century. Apparently the Muslims 
carried out a new measurement of the land in order to calculate the taxes, 
and in that document it was said that the tax was imposed according to the 
measurement of the land carried out by the Arabs. There are also eight 
orders regarding supplies for the Muslim army from the people of Nes¬ 
sana in the years 672-677. 

Palestine was, during the entire period we are dealing with, a sort of 
gold mine for the central government, whether headquartered in Da¬ 
mascus, Baghdad or Cairo. On the basis of data preserved by Muslim 
chroniclers and geographers it is possible to reconstruct the sums collected 
in the treasury at various times from the two junds, Filastin and Urdunn. 
Naturally, the security situation had a noticeable influence on the 
amounts, but one can easily deduce that in all the periods it was a matter of 
hundreds of thousands of dinars. If we take into account that the average 
monthly wage then was some two dinars, we can say that it was a matter 
of hundreds of thousands of monthly wages, as Table 1 indicates. 

Contrary to what we are inclined to believe today, the question of taxes 
did not have only a secular and financial character. Indeed, we know that 
the money from the poll-tax was considered as a kind of sacred money. In 

an ancient Egyptian tradition, as bequeathed by the Byzantines. 

8 See Nessana, 33, and document No. 55, ibid., 172f. The editor, Kraemer, assumes that the 
payment of six solidi was a tax imposed on the individual. The treaty ofNajran: Baladhuri, 
Futiih, 63. It is noted there that they are speaking of an ounce of forty dirhams, and thus the 
2,000 hullas were some 250 kilograms of gold. Cf. Hinz, 35. 


145 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


Income from non-Muslim taxes, in dinars 


Time (rounded) 

Filastin 

Urdunn 

Total 

Source 

670 

450,000 

180,000 

630,000 

Ya'qub! 

780 

310,000 

97,000 

407,000 

Ibn Khallikan 

800 

310,000 

96,000 

406,000 

Jahshiyari 

820 

195,000 

109,000 

304,000 

Qudama 

840 (?) 

175,000 

175,000 

350,000 

Isfahan! (in Ibn 
khurdadhbih) 

860 

500,000 

350,000 

850,000 

Ibn Khurdadhbih 

890 

300,000 

100,000 

400,000 

Ya'qubi 

895 

259,000 

170,000 

429,000 

MuqaddasI 9 


general, a cadi was in charge of collecting this tax and he was obliged to 
keep it separate from the rest of the treasury’s income. As Maqrizi once 
said, this was ‘the good and pure money’, and it would be indecent to mix 
the money from the jaliya (= jizya, poll-tax) with the income from port 
taxes. Among the documents in the Cairo Geniza, a payment order has 
been preserved written by Abraham Maimuni to the effect that a sum of81 
dirhams had to be paid urgently to the cadi Shams al-Din, for this was the 
remainder of what is owed for the jaliya for the year 614 of the hijra (AD 
1217/8). 10 

[246-247] The collection of the jizya was generally called istikhraj, 
which means collection or income. In an inscription discovered in Jerusa¬ 
lem, near the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, evidently dating from the 
thirties of the eleventh century (i.e. from the Fatimid period), it is written 
that no dhimmi may come into the mosque, even if he comes in matters of 
the istikhraj. It is reasonable to assume that the dhimmi would usually 
come to the mosque to pay the cadi the poll-tax, and this is what the 
founder of the Jerusalem mosque wished to prevent (and we have no 
details concerning him or the mosque). 11 

9 See the document from Nessana in Bell, Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, 
89:531, 1945; another document tells of a delegation of twenty people appearing before the 
governor of Gaza in order to request a decrease in taxes. Cf. Lewis, PEQ, 80(1948), 114. 
Table 1 follows that of Le Strange, Palestine, 45ff; see the detailed references therein. The 
figures relating to 670 (Mu'awiya’s time) are according to: Ya'qubi, Ta'rikh, II, 288. To 
the taxes of780, one must add: 300,000 ratls (= pounds) of olive oil per annum, from jund 
Filastin. 

10 See Maqrizi, Khitat, 1, 187; Gil, Documents, 107f and see ibid., 416, the payment order of 
Abraham Maimuni (no. 114, TS BoxK25, No. 240 [11]). To the Shiites, the poll-tax, the 
jizya, was considered a direct debt of the unbelievers to the imam (that is, the legitimate 
ruler) of the Muslims, like the payment owed by the slave to his master, for the dhimmis 
are slaves ( mamdlik) of the imam. See Ibn Babawayah, ‘Ilal, 541. 

11 See the term istikhraj clearly meaning the collecting of the poll-tax in Yahya Ibn SaTd, 239; 
Maqrizi, Itti'a%, I, 146: Ya'qub Ibn Killis and ‘Asluj forbade the use of dinars which were 


146 








THE TAXES [SECS. 241-265] 


The question of taxes in Jerusalem is a very special one. We have seen 
above the clause in ‘Umar’s treaty with the people ofjerusalem, who were 
Christians, according to which they had to pay the jizya just as did the 
inhabitants of other cities; but there are no details in that treaty about the 
conditions of other cities’ payment of the jizya (there are some details 
relating to Tiberias, as we shall see). Here the Cairo Geniza comes to our 
assistance; although it dates relatively late - the eleventh century, it evi¬ 
dently reflects customs that had continued from the time of the conquest, 
for some four hundred years. The circular letter coming from the yeshiva 
ofjerusalem, evidently in 1057, appeals to the Egyptian communities for 
help, pointing to ‘the tax and the regular payments imposed on us, 
whether we are many or few; every year we have to borrow with interest 
in order to fulfil it’. From this we can assume that the Jews ofjerusalem 
had to pay a regular lump sum annually; and it is very likely that this 
continued from the days of the caliph ‘Umar. It seems that in the course of 
generations a form of internal distribution of this sum among the Jews of 
Jerusalem evolved. The Gaon Solomon b. Judah, writing from Jerusalem 
in ca. 1034 on the subject of Farah b. Dunash, a man of Sijilmassa, notes 
that this man settled in Jerusalem, married a woman ofjerusalem, begat 
sons, became a Jerusalemite and paid ‘the tax as the great do, which is a 
dinar ( zahiiv ) and a quarter’. We learn that the ‘great’, undoubtedly the 
well-to-do, paid a dinar and a quarter injerusalem (and this was not much 
compared with the four dinars that was asked of the rich in other places). 12 

[248] Although the information in the Cairo Geniza documents is not 
explicit, one can nevertheless learn from them what was the regular annual 
sum that had to be paid. The Gaon Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph mentions 
in his letter that he wrote from Jerusalem in the spring of 1025 to Ephraim 

not the coinage ofal-Mu‘izz for the purpose of the istikhraj\ and see further examples on the 
same page and on the following page. The Jerusalem inscription, see: Bjorkman, Der 
Islam, 15(1926), 97; Repertoire chrottologique, No. 2149 (vol. VII, 80f); Clermont-Ganneau, 
Recueil, II, 308; Hirschberg, BJPES, 13(1946/7), 163, and a drawing of the inscription 
ibid., 162. Hirschberg assumed that istikhrdj meant the clearing of refuse and related this to 
the information on the Jews engaged in cleaning work on the Temple Mount in the period 
after the conquest. The question of whether it is permissible altogether for dhimmis to 
enter the mosque is discussed in Muslim legal literature and sometimes the answer is 
positive, such as the opinion of Mujahid in Ibn Abl Shayba, II, 526; cf. Tritton, JRAS, 
1942, 37: (generally) it was forbidden to dhimmis to enter mosques, but they entered 
nevertheless, for a person could not be asked what his creed was on entering a mosque 
(according to Ghazall); see also Lazarus-Yafeh, Tarbiz, 51(1981/2), 219. 

12 The clause in ‘Umar’s treaty withjerusalem promising people from the towns and villages 
(who evidently found a haven injerusalem) is also worth noting, that if they would return 
to their homes, they would only be asked to pay taxes after the harvest. The circular letter: 
420 , d, lines 15-17. The letter of Solomon b. judah: 118 , a, lines 9ff. Solomon b. Judah asks 
Abraham that he save the aforementioned ‘from the hands of the Egyptian oppressors’ for 
he is going there (Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 49, writes that it was a matter of 
marriage to a woman of Tiberias, but this is not what is written in the letter; see 1. 10). 


147 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


b. Shemaria, leader of the Jerusalemites in Fustat, that the Jews ofjerusa- 
lem had to pay 100 dinars. In about 1030, his successor to the seat ofGaon, 
Solomon b. Judah, in a letter to the same, confirms the receipt of twenty- 
nine and one eighth dinars, sent by diyoqne (in Arabic: sujiaja) with an 
Egyptianjew who came on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem. He continues: ‘and 
we obliged ourselves to take from this diyoqne 20 dinars ( zehuvim ) for the 
debt we have to pay each year’, that is they had to use most of that amount 
to pay the regular global annual tax. 

Further details regarding this annual sum are gathered from a letter 
written in about 1060 by ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, who was the parnas of 
the community, that is the man in charge of money matters, injerusalem. 
In this letter, he mentioned that the community was asked to pay 150 
dinars every year as a regular tax ( ratib), of which 70 were the kharaj, 40 for 
the armed guards ( ahdath ), and a further 40 for municipal expenses there. 
We may assume that out of the 100 dinars mentioned, 70 were considered 
kharaj, the tax of the Muslim authorities, and the last 30 were evidently 
intended for the local security people and the city’s needs. These are 
specified in detail in a letter of the yeshiva of Jerusalem from the year 1057 
which I have already mentioned above: ‘. . . the needs of the city: to clear 
its refuse, clean its drains, repair its walls and pay its watchmen, please its 
governors, etc.’, in contemporary terms: to collect the refuse, maintain 
the sewage system, maintain the walls and pay the watchmen who guard 
the walls, and bribe those in official positions. 13 

[249-252] We have learned that the regular annual amount which the 
Jews injerusalem had to pay on the basis of a custom that began immedi¬ 
ately after the conquest, was 70 dinars. With this payment, the right to 
enter Jerusalem as a pilgrim was ‘acquired’. Entrance to the city was 
evidently linked to the payment of a tax, if the person who came to the city 
was a dhimmi. We know of a similar tax in Alexandria from a letter from 
the Geniza written in 1026 by Joseph ha-Kohen, the judge ( dayyan ) of 
Alexandria, to Ephraim b. Shemaria. This was a tax of two and a half 
dinars per head: ‘We gave the master of the gate two and a half gold 
coins’. 14 We also know that Christian pilgrims were asked to pay one dinar 
(aureus) on their arrival injerusalem for the right to enter the city. 15 In the 

13 Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph: 49 , line 16f; Solomon b. Judah: 112 , lines 12-13; TS20.115, 
a very faded fragment that remained from another letter of Solomon b. Judah, signed also 
byjoseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon and Tobiah ‘the third’, in which the ‘fixed tax’ to be 
paid to the governor and to the ‘boys’ is mentioned: ‘and to the boys a fixed payment’ 
(1.15); ‘and to satisfy the governor and the boys’ (1.8). The letter of‘Eli ha-Kohen: 443 , a, 
lines 8-10. Expenses of the city ofjerusalem: 420 , c, lines 34-35. 

14 TS 24.29,11. 29f, edited by Mann, Texts, I, 367ff; cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 62f; 
sha'ar shel-ha-yam as against the Arabic thaghr, which means both gate and port. 

15 William of Tyre, 30; Deprima inst., RHC, Occ., V, 402. 


148 



THE TAXES [SECS. 241-265] 


above letter, Solomon b. Judah explicitly mentions that the regular lump 
sum which the Jews ofjerusalem paid was also intended to ensure that the 
Muslims would not harass the pilgrims; that thejews ofjerusalem would 
have permission to encircle the gates of the Temple Mount together with 
the pilgrims, to pray alongside them, and to pray - even out loud! - on the 
Mount of Olives. 16 

The subject of taxes is frequently mentioned in letters of the yeshiva, 
generally urging the addressee to try to aid or organise aid for the people of 
Jerusalem; the impression is clear that they were unable to bear the heavy 
financial burden. Some letters of Solomon b. Judah mention the receipt of 
the diyoqne sent from Fustat in order to help pay the tax. Appeals of this 
nature were more frequently repeated during times when additional 
special taxes were imposed on thejewish population. Frequently the tax is 
called ‘onesh (punishment), or in Arabic, gharama, which means both a 
debt and a fine. Thus for instance, in a letter of Solomon ha-Kohen b. 
Joseph, written in the spring of 1025: ‘the living had to be guarantors for 
the dead and those who remained were guarantors for those who fled, 
until they paid the ‘onesh and then they were obliged to pay a further tax. If 
you would have seen who paid all these sums, you would have been 
amazed and deplored them, and said: how did such poor people pay such a 
big ‘onesh?.’ And in another of his letters: ‘since ‘onashrn were imposed on 
us, which exhaust the body . . . which we would not have thought that we 
would be able to bear even partly; (the more so) as such an ‘onesh as that 
which was imposed on the city’. 

The preoccupation of the people of the Jerusalem yeshiva with taxes can 
be seen in a fragment of a letter in the handwriting of Abraham b. 
Solomon b. Judah in which the main subject is the tax burden, and in 
which there is mention of a ‘Christian ('dr el) secretary’. This perhaps hints 
at collaboration between the Bedouin rebels headed by the Banu Jarrah 
and the Christian tax officials, as the description of the rebellion may 
suggest (see pp. 384f below). In this passage ‘people who do not pay tax’ 
are mentioned and there was something about the keneslyot (synagogues), 
apparently in connection with the destruction of the synagogues in the 
days ofal-Hakim; the addressee (perhaps Ephraim b. Shemaria, the haver), 
is warned about revealing things to ‘the Christian secretary’. 17 

[253] Letters written by Joshiah b. Aaron, Head of the Jerusalem yesh- 

16 105, lines 13ff. A similar version: 109, lines 9-10, his letter to Ephraim b. Shemaria, torn 
on the right side: ‘for there remained there but few of the many [and they had to pay the 
dues] fixed, to the rulers of the city and its boys so that they should not harm the people of 
Israel... in their going up to (Jerusalem) and coming and going about on the gates of [the 
temple], saying qadosh, and bariikh, and going up to the Mount [of Olives]’. 

17 See for example 147, lines 5-22, written in ca. 1045; 165, the remnant of a letter written by 
Abraham, the son of Solomon b. Judah, and one can still read there ‘they are eating us alive 


149 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


iva, in the first quarter of the eleventh century, speak of'anisha, that is the 
heavy taxes imposed by the authorities of the day, mentioning a special tax 
of 2,500 dinars. One of the letters also describes the bargaining with the 
authorities. The representative of the Gaon, Abu Nasr b. ‘Abdun, warns 
the governor of Jerusalem that if they will demand such sums, ‘half the 
population will flee and the city will be destroyed in front of your eyes; and 
you yourself will have no security against a change of governors’. In this 
same letter, ‘an enormous gharama’, an especially large tax is mentioned. 
Also in another letter, written by a number of people from Jerusalem, 
evidently in 1024, there is a hint of extraordinary taxes; and one of the 
pamasrn of Jerusalem went on an urgent mission to Fustat in order to get 
special help to pay the tax. 18 

[254] At approximately the same time, we are informed about an ‘onesh 
imposed on the entire city of Jerusalem, to the extent of 15,000 dinars, 
certainly an enormous sum. This apparently occurred during the war 
against the Bedouin tribes, and it appears that it was the Fatimid army, 
then fighting on Palestinian soil, which imposed the tax. To that amount, 
another sum of 6,000 dinars was added, to be paid by thejews; half by the 

... on which the dues are inscribed ... and the ‘onesh to be paid... (to the governor) of the 
city and all his servants . . . since to satisfy them one needs pieces of silver’; pieces of silver, 
rassekesef, isaplay of words on Ps., lxviii:30 (31), and one should read instead of rasse: rida 
in Arabic, satisfaction by silver, i.e. bribes. See a similar text in 420, d, lines 1-3, on the 
Muslim authorities: ‘The Children of Kedar [i.e., the Bedouin] oppress us very much, 
they are a company of spear-men who submit themselves with pieces of silver [Ps., ibid., 
the Hebrew version may be interpreted differently from the King James version], their 
throat is an open sepulchre’ (Ps., v:9[10]). Similar things were written by the Karaite 
Salmon b. Yeruhim (in the middle of the tenth century): ‘Submit himself with pieces of 
silver, means to say that Israel who are among these gentiles are tread underfoot, bring the 
poll-tax and special tax at any time. Some say: with pieces of silver, broken ( resusim , same 
root as rasse) by silver, by depriving them of their money’ ( kesef, both silver and money). 
See his commentary to Ps. (Marwick), xevi. See also: 45, a letter from Sicily written in 
around 1020, in which ‘ondshttn, meaning taxes, is used: ‘the ‘onashlm . . . since several 
years ... they have to pay a fixed tax on every head, being 472 tarts, being a total of more 
than 17 tans, a big debt.. .’; the fan was 1 A of a dinar, which was legal tender in Sicily, see: 
TS 16.133, lines 13, 20, 23, 27, ed. Assaf, Meqorot, 140ff; TS 13J 16, f. 11, line 12, ed. 
Goitein, Finkel Jubilee Volume, 122; idem, Mediterranean Society I, Index. The letters of the 
Gaon Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph: 49, lines 18-19; 50, lines 10-12; 89, lines 10, 11, a 
letter from Solomon b. Judah to Ephraim b. Shemaria: ‘what they collected was not 
enough to pay the ‘dnesh we owe annually, so we were forced to borrow the rest’. 383, line 
10, written around 1060 by the scribe of the yeshiva: ‘and the regular dues and the 
‘onashitn .- The fragment of Solomon b. Judah’s letter: 165a. 

18 See 36, line 13: ‘For two years, prior to the heavy tax imposed on our brethren, we were no 
longer able to request aid from the kingdom’; in other words, the subvention given by the 
Fatimid rulers to the yeshiva was interrupted for two years (he mentions the subvention in 
this letter); now even more heavy taxes are imposed, 37, b, line 18 (gharama kabira) and see 
the story of the bargaining in lines llff. The letter of the Jerusalemites: 33, lines 8ff ‘the 
officials of the tax [demanded] the remaining 120 dinars ... and this year we still owe 30 
dinars . . . and we were forced to borrow these dinars with interest. . . and as our emissary 
came back empty-handed . .. the lenders came and demanded we sell the sacred objects’. 


ISO 



THE TAXES [SECS. 241-265] 


Rabbanites and half by the Karaites. The Jews succeeded in collecting 
5,000 dinars and the two communities had to borrow money at exorbitant 
rates of interest from rich Muslims, on promissory notes for double the 
sums they had actually borrowed. Afterwards we learn of some Jews who 
were imprisoned because they were unable to defray the heavy debts. 
Some were forced to sell or mortgage their houses or whatever other 
property they possessed. Many died from the terrible torment of being 
required to pay the tax and in some cases, of subjection to physical torture. 

Fifteen thousand gold coins and add to that some six thousand fell on thejews . .. 
three thousand on us, and against that, the same on our brethren (that is, the 
Karaites); and we gave two thousand and five hundred gold coins until we went 
out of everything we had empty, naked, sad, poor, and nothing remained to a man 
in his house, even a dress for himself or houseware; some of us mortgaged their 
houses with interest in order to pay and some sold them completely. Many died of 
this suffering; for there were those who put blame on them, and struck them 
without pity, but nothing was found on them; some hid in pits because of the 
strength of the blows and the force of the afflictions and with all that (we did not 
arrive at) more than two thousand and five hundred, with the tax twice doubled, 
and we were forced to take the rest, five hundred for nearly a thousand (that is, 
obliged to return almost one thousand for five hundred dinars) from the rulers of 
the city, and likewise the inhabitants of the sela‘ (that is, the Karaites), also 
took.. , 19 

[255] A very typical document, which is so important for an under¬ 
standing of the question of the tax, is a draft of a petition from thejews of 

19 See 49, lines 20-30. See also Solomon b. Judah’s letters, for instance 88, lines 12-16: ‘our 
burden is heavy and everyone eats us with all his mouth and the dues added upon us ... 
and we were forced to take on interest the dues imposed on us’. In 84, a, lines 3-14, 
Solomon b. Judah mentions the prisoners held in jail because of the same debt and insists 
on the urgent need to get the money from the rich ofEgypt, the Tustari brothers, ‘for the 
debt is more than nine hundred dinars, how can we possibly defray it? Out of the barnfloor 
or out of the winepress?’ (2 Ki., vi:27). The Karaites, though they receive considerable 
support from Zoan (= Fustat), they, too, still owe 800 dinars and hope that their nesl’im 
(that is, people from the exilarchic families among the leaders of the Karaites, see below) 
would get them the money. The Rabbanites in Jerusalem expect that Solomon b. Judah 
will act in this matter as the nesi’im of the Karaites do, and claim that he must show more 
initiative in this matter because he was not included as one of those responsible for the 
debt, as happened to one of the Karaites’ nesl’im (from which one can deduce that the same 
Karaite leader was also imprisoned because of the debt). See also 89, lines 9-1 5; and also 
405, a letter written by Joseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon, almost at the same time, in 
which he states ‘for of forty dinars we borrowed nine at the time of the tax, in addition to 
the special debt [neshe] which is known to you, our mighty one’; by ‘our mighty one’ he 
evidently meant Ephraim b. Shemaria, and the intention of the writer was apparently that 
out of forty dinars sent (to help the poor of Jerusalem?) they were forced to take nine for 
paying the tax, apart from the debt incurred by the special tax (this is evidently how one 
should understand the word neshe, from the root nshh). See also 210, lines 40f: Zadok 
ha-Levi b. Levi explains (in about 1029) why he went down from Jerusalem to Ramla, 
because Jerusalem is ‘torturous and breaks every body . .. and the burden is too heavy to 
bear . . . the neshes and the midda (the tax of the Babylonian king, Neh. 5:4) of captivity, 
and the compulsion of the ledgers, which is worse than anything’. 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


Tiberias concerning their taxes. From this we can deduce that in Tiberias 
as well, it was customary, apparently from very early times - perhaps 
since the Muslim conquest, to impose a lump sum as tax on thejews of the 
city. One should bear in mind that Tiberias was the capital of jund 
Urdunn. It seems that the division of the sum between thejews of the city 
was determined by their ability to pay. A new governor who was ap¬ 
pointed to the city demanded from the leaders of the community that they 
should put pressure on the rich to increase their share, in order that the 
global sum should also be larger. The representative of the Tiberian Jews 
was Siba‘ b. Faraj. If he is the same as Hillel he-haver b. Joshua, it doubles 
the importance of a letter written by this Hillel, evidently to Ephraim b. 
Shemaria in Fustat, in which he also refers to the heavy pressure placed on 
thejews of Tiberias with regard to taxes: ‘they have imposed on them an 
'onesh, and now this elder, the gizbdr (treasurer) is in the hands of wicked 
cruel people, who wish to end his life’. The reference here is to Abraham 
the treasurer, a man known for his charity and certainly a rich man. His 
son, Joseph, came especially from Aleppo where he was staying, to 
Tiberias, to look after the affairs of his father, and went to Fustat for the 
same reason. 

The matter of the people of Khaybar mentioned in that draft of the 
petition is also of considerable interest. Somejews claimed that they were 
of Khaybar stock and thus exempt from paying taxes. According to what 
is said in the Muslim traditions, thejews of Khaybar were ousted from 
their place in the days of ‘Umar, after the Muslims had overrun their 
villages during the time of the Prophet and made them into tenants. The 
offspring of the Jews of Khaybar (or whoever claimed to be their off¬ 
spring) used to claim that they were exempt from paying tax by virtue of a 
special letter of rights granted them by the Prophet, and they would also 
display this document. Certain collectors of Muslim traditions have pro¬ 
vided evidence of the fraudulent nature of the claim and have accused them 
of forgery. Several versions of the letter of rights (which is indeed forged) 
have been preserved in Hebrew writing. It is worth noting that according 
to Yahya ibn Sa‘Id, even the Fatimid caliph al-Hakim, known for his 
destruction of churches and synagogues and for issuing other restrictive 
laws against the dhimmls, exempted the people of Khaybar from the 
restrictions placed on the Christians and thejews. Here we see that in 
Tiberias there were also Jews who claimed to have originated in Khaybar 
and as a result were exempt from paying tax. 20 

[256] As I have said above, ‘Umar’s treaty with the Christians in 

20 See 249 and 251: it seems that they were both in the hands of Ephraim b. Shemaria, the 

haver from Fustat; this is proven by the fact that on the back of the sheet on which 249 is 

written, there is a draft of a deed of attorney, written by Ephraim. This apparently takes 


152 



THE TAXES [SECS. 241-265] 


Jerusalem did not include any details of the jizya which they had to pay, 
except for the general statement that it would be the same as in the other 
cities. We already have more exact information about Tiberias and we 
have seen that at the time of the conquest (January 635) its inhabitants (and 
one can assume that the majority werejews) were obliged to pay one dinar 
per person annually. It is stated there that similar conditions were imposed 
on the inhabitants of Damascus as well. That the original sum was one 
dinar per person injerusalem is suggested by the tax on Christian pilgrims 
entering Jerusalem, which, as noted above, was also one dinar. How did 
this payment of one dinar per head become a global tax? It is likely that 
both sides, Jews and Muslims, were interested in it being so, in order to 
avoid modifications; and on the part of the Muslims, to ease the collecting 
process. If indeed the tax injerusalem was one dinar per adult head of a 
family, then the sum of 70 dinars that thejews ofjerusalem were asked to 
pay annually is also understandable, considering the fact that seventy was 
the number of families at first permitted to settle in Jerusalem after the 
conquest. Here it is worth noting the information found in the list of 
Christian holy places De casis Dei, according to which the Jerusalem 
Patriarch pays the Arabs (ad Sarracenos) 580 dinars annually. This was 
apparently the global sum imposed on the Christians injerusalem, and 
was possibly statutory since the time of the conquest. One can deduce 
from this that at the time of the conquest there were 580 Christian families 
living injerusalem. 21 

[257] This special tax regime that existed injerusalem, as well as in other 

place in 1048, after the killing of Abraham the Tustari (see 251: ‘due to our many sins, the 
helping hand of the old man was done away with’) when the imposing of oppressive 
decrees against thejews became frequent; see Gil, ha-Tustanm, 41ff. As to the Khaybarls, 
their banishment is recalled in many sources, see for instance: Ibn Sa‘d, 11(1), 203; 
SamhudI, I, 229; II, 388f. On al-Hakim: Yahya ibn SaTd, Ta’rikh ( PO ), 508; the matter is 
also mentioned in Ibn Khallikan, V, 293. De Slane in the English translation of the 
aforementioned evidently read hayabira instead of khayabira and translated: their doctors 
(that is: of thejews; meaning that the Jewish scholars were exempt from the decrees, an 
unheard-of possibility); and see also Maqrlzl, Itti'az, II, 93 (the editor read hababira instead 
of khayabira). Braslavi and others were inclined to believe all sorts of late sources with 
various stories about the Khaybarls; while Goitein adopted a more critical approach, and 
brought up the conjecture that those Khaybarls were Jews who came from Iraq. See 
Braslavi, Le-heqer, 1-52; Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 386f; Muslim complaints with 
regard to the fraudulent letters of the Khaybarls, see for instance: Ibn al-jawzl, Muntazam, 
VIII, 265; Subkl, Tabaqdt IV, 35; SafadI, al-Wafi, I, 44f; Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, IV, 219; cf. also 
Mez, 326, n. 4, and more references therein; see the copy of the letter-of-rights in Hebrew 
script from the Geniza printed and interpreted by Goitein, Kiryat Sejer, 9:507, 1932/3. For 
the sake of comparison, see the discussion on a similar forged document, an alleged 
agreement between the Prophet and the Christian Bedouin Banu Taghlib: Abel, SI, 
32(1970), 8f. 

21 We have seen above that the Jews who served in the cleaning and maintenance on the 
Temple Mount in the seventh century were exempt (as were their descendants) from 
paying poll-tax; that is, thejewish community injerusalem evidently did not impose on 


153 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


cities in Palestine, created circumstances that could be thought advan¬ 
tageous in comparison with those of cities in other countries in the Muslim 
world. In the Geniza documents, there is information on matters of the 
poll-tax in Egypt which could be compared with the tax regime of 
Jerusalem. We find Israel b. Nathan (= Ibn Sahlun), a Maghribi merchant 
who was the cousin of the better-known Nehorai b. Nissim, writing to 
Nehorai from Jerusalem ten years after leaving Fustat. He had married a 
woman in Byzantium and remained there for a few years. We have no 
precise details about his life at that time, but his letters reveal that his 
marriage was a failure. He had also sat in a Byzantine prison, maybe 
because he was an alien. While in prison, he pledged that he would live in 
Jerusalem for a long time if he succeeded in being released. Upon his 
release he stayed injerusalem for a year and then decided to remain there, 
explaining the reasons for this to Nehorai. In Fustat, he was registered 
with the tax office (ft’l-kharaj) - as a qatin, that is, a permanent resident, 
after having previously been registered as tart, i.e. new or temporary 
(certainly after he arrived there from the Maghrib). From what he writes, 
it appears that if he returned to Fustat after an absence of ten years or more, 
he would have to pay all that he owed the tax office for the years he was 
absent. We can learn from this that as long as he remained injerusalem, he 
was not required to pay any personal tax at all, owing to the special 
conditions that existed injerusalem. 22 

[258] The documents from Palestine and its surroundings contained in 
the Geniza provide us with information about additional kinds of taxes, 
especially those imposed on imports. Taxes of this kind were levied chiefly 
on foreigners. A quite clear picture of this state of affairs evolves from a 
deed of partnership written in Fustat. The death of one of the partners 
brought to light the matter coming before the court of the yeshiva of 
Palestine under the Gaon Daniel b. Azariah. Concerning the matter we are 
discussing here, one detail of the transaction is important, namely that a 
large shipload of various goods sent to Sicily was registered in its entirety 
in the name of a certain Moses b. Judah, who was not the owner of the 
shipment, but who as an inhabitant of the island was exempt from import 
tax, that is the maks, called in this document al-'isstlr min isshma'el (the tithe 
of the Ishmaelites). 

In around 1055, Nissim b. Halfon, one of the agents of the great 
international merchant Nehorai b. Nissim, writes from Tyre about flax 
sent from Egypt. The letter is full of complaints about the port authorities 
in Tyre and the clerks of the kharaj (here meaning taxes in general). The 

them participation in the annual sum it had to pay. De casis Dei, see: Tobler et Molinier, t, 

305. 

22 See 469, b, lines 7—10 (evidently written in 1059), and see the discussion on the poll-tax in 


154 



THE TAXES [SECS. 241-265] 


letter written by the Maghribi merchant Avon b. Sedaqa on 11 November 
1064 in Jerusalem is similar; apart from all kinds of grievances about the 
hazards of maritime commerce, and especially commerce with Sicily, he 
too had complaints about the maks. He also mentions the head of the office 
of the maks, the sahib al-maks. A letter from Abraham, son of the Gaon 
Solomon b, Judah, also mentions the maks al-kharajP 

[259] One should note that according to Muslim law maks meant a tax of 
which there is no hint in the sources recognised by the sharVa, the religious 
law. The Muslim sources repeatedly mention precedents of rulers who 
cancelled the maks, and this alone goes to prove that these cancellations did 
not last long. However, it appears that with regard to the dhimmis, there 
was no intention whatsoever to cancel the maks, as we have seen in the 
instance of Sicily, and certainly not with regard to those dhimmis who 
were not permanent residents of the port city in which it was imposed. 24 

[260] Three letters written in about 1060 by ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, 
one of the leaders of the Jews in Jerusalem, contain evidence of a special tax 
on shops. The writer asks his relative in Fustat to try to get him a reduction 
in the tax he pays on his shop injerusalem, which amounts to seven dinars. 
The year prior to that, he succeeded in getting a reduction of not more than 
half a dinar, and for this, he had to bribe the ‘Samaritan’, evidently the tax 
official, with a quarter of a dinar. He asks that the tax be reduced by two 
dinars, at least. Approximately two hundred years earlier, the monk 
Bernard testifies that every merchant who owns a stand in the market¬ 
place alongside the Latins’ hostel injerusalem is obliged to pay two aurei 
(dinars) annually to the overseer. 25 

[261] We have seen that one of the advantages promised to the Jews of 
Jerusalem in exchange for the global tax payment was an exemption for 
pilgrims of the payment of an entrance tax. The Gaon Solomon b. Judah 

the light of the Geniza documents: Goitein, JESHO, 6:278, 1963; idem, Mediterranean 
Society, II, 380-394. 

23 The question posed to Daniel b. Azariah: 395, line 19, and see also 394 and 396, dealing 
with the same matter. The letter from Tyre: 489; Avon b. Sedaqa: 500, a, lines 30-31; 
Abraham son of the Gaon: 170. There are more instances of maks mentioned in this region; 
see for instance 487 in the right-hand margin, line 2, a letter fromjacob b. Joseph b. IsmaTl 
al-ltrabulusl, written in Ascalon, in which there is a detailed description of import and 
export matters; 495, line 11, written at approximately the same time in Tyre, byjacob b. 
Isma‘11 al-Andalust, dealing with sundry wares exported to Egypt. 

24 See editor’s note in Maqrtzi, Dhahab, 88; MaqrizI, Khitat, I, 184f; Qalqashandi, Subh, III, 
470f; and see the article Maks (by W. Bjorkman) in EV. According to ‘Azlzi, II, 41, the 
'ushr (meaning here mates ) is only legitimate when imposed on Jews and Christians but not 
on Muslims; maks on Muslims is haram. See the discussion on ‘ushr in the days of the 
Prophet in Kister, JSAI, 1(1979), lOfand more references ibid., n. 38. 

25 See 446, from line 24f; 447, from line 5f; 449, from line 18. Bribery was self-understood, 
particularly in the ports; see for instance 494, a, line 13: Jacob b. IsmaTl, writing from 
Tyre, mentions that he spent all his money on bribes (in around 1060). Bernard, seeTobler 
et Molinier, I, 314. 


155 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


distinctly mentions that the people of Jerusalem made extraordinary 
efforts in order that the authorities should not affect another right of the 
pilgrims, namely that they should not be asked to show the bard’a. A 
traveller was obliged to carry the bara’a, namely the confirmation that he 
had paid the poll-tax, for if it was found that he did not have this 
confirmation, he would be in for a great deal of trouble. The Jews of 
Jerusalem endeavoured to be punctual in paying the global tax imposed on 
them: ‘We are few, we cannot stand up to a small part of it; and the 
remainder every year is taken in interest: in order that the pilgrims to the 
holy city should not be caught and required to show the tax-notes’. 26 

[262] From other evidence, we learn to what extent the obligation of 
settling the tax affairs affected the traveller. Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mev- 
orakh, leader of the Jews of Ascalon, in his letter of 26 October 1093, 
recommends to the parnas ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim in Fustat, a respected 
Jewish scholar, Abu Sa‘d b. Pinhas of Damascus, who is travelling to 
Egypt on business on his first trip there; therefore he asks the parnas of 
Fustat to help him find his way in this alien situation. His particular worry 
is tax matters, despite the fact that he is carrying with him the bara’a 
dtwaniyya, the receipt from the tax authorities confirming that he had paid 
the poll-tax (in his language: dayn [= debt of] al-jizya). A similar request 
we find in a letter written in around 1065 by Judah b. Abraham, a 
Maghribi living in Jerusalem, to the head of the congregation of Jerusa¬ 
lemites in Fustat, ‘Eli he-haver b. ‘Amram. He asks him to help a certain 
Saadia, a teacher travelling to Fustat, who needs nothing besides assistance 
with the tax arrangements of the ‘masters of the jaliya’. 27 

[263] At times, we find thejerusalem Gaon expressing anxiety about tax 
matters in Egypt. In a letter he wrote on 29 November 1042, Solomon b. 
Judah mentions a census that was taken in Fustat with the intention of 
inscribing all the poor and demanding of them taxes, and he expresses fear 
lest similar decrees are imposed in Palestine as well: ‘. . . [the letter from 
Fustat] saddened us, as it mentioned the matter of our poverty-stricken 
brethren, who were counted in order to collect taxes from them just as 
from the rich ... and we fear ... lest it extends from there to this 
country’. 28 

26 105, lines 18-20, written around 1035. We see that the term pttaq (from Greek: pittakion) is 
used to mean bara’a. Cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 384ff; 612, n. 46; he also 
mentions another Arabic synonym, ruq'a (pi. riqa‘). 

27 See 586, lines 19ff; 456, b, line 6 (this part is written in Arabic script, unlike the beginning 
of the letter: one can still read ashdb and apparently it is to be completed: al-jaliya ). 

28 133, lines 2-4. It is interesting to compare this with what Sahl b. Masllah wrote some 
eighty years earlier to Jacob b. Samuel about the Rabbanites, that they ‘boast and subject 
them (the Karaites) to bans and excommunications and with the help of the rulers of the 
aliens, and ‘ondshim (which as we already know meant special taxes, fines) forcing them to 
borrow on interest and give it to them’; see in Pinsker, Liqqute qadmoniyot, II, 31f. 


156 



THE TAXES [SECS. 241-265] 


[264] It is not surprising that the Gaon praises Ephraim b. Shemaria, the 
haver from Fustat. In one of his letters he writes that he is ‘concerned about 
all public affairs, to save those caught for taxes’, while another leader 
whom he does not mention by name, is ‘impatient, and has no time to go 
into the law, and he does not know how to deal with the police and the 
governor and scribe [official clerk] and tax official’. Solomon b. Judah’s 
heir to the seat of Gaon, Daniel b. Azariah, also had a trustworthy helping 
hand in tax matters in the person of Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac b. Furat, a 
physician with considerable influence. In a letter to the latter written in 
Arabic in around 1055, the Gaon writes that ‘our people, may God help 
them, bless His name, are in great trouble [Hebrew in the original: be-sa'ar 
gadol ] about their tax in each and every city, especially in Damascus. 
Therefore perhaps. Sir, you would find it possible to ‘champion their 
rights; act, and God will double your reward . .. ’ At about the same time, 
thejews of Damascus themselves write to the yeshiva and mention among 
their other difficulties, the fact that they are being asked to pay the tax 
before payment is due. They demand the possibility of paying the tax once 
a year, on Muharram. On the other hand, there were Jews who co-operated 
with the authorities with regard to the tax, as one of the Gaon Solomon b. 
Judah’s circle describes ajew ‘who sat many years serving the clerks of the 
tax and inheritance’; he would serve as a sort of mediator between the 
Muslim tax officials and thejews and determine the extent of the tax. 29 

[265] We have seen that the principle of submission and inferiority of 
‘the people of the book’ towards the Muslims is already to be found in the 
Koran. We find it again in a new version in the treaties of surrender. The 
following is the version as it appears in the Damascus treaty: the Muslims 
are permitted to enter churches by day or night; the Christians may not 
raise pigs in the neighbourhood of Muslims and shall not sell wine to 
Muslims; they shall not try to convert Muslims to their belief and may not 
prevent members of their own religion from turning to Islam; they shall 
treat the Muslims with respect wherever they are located (or in their 
councils —fi majdlisihim); they must stand aside and make way for them; 
they must stand up before them and give up their seats for them; they may 
not enter Muslims’ houses but are obliged to host and feed a Muslim in a 
reasonable manner for a period of three days; they may not curse a Muslim 
and whoever hits a Muslim, his blood be on his own head (fa-qad khuli'a 
‘ahduhu, literally: the treaty of his [defence] became invalid). 30 

25 95, lines 15-18; 355, b, in the margin. The letter from Damascus: 285, lines 10-12; the Jew 
mediator: 84, b, II, lines 19f. 

30 Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 505, 563f Cf. Avon b. Sedaqa’s letter, writing from Jerusalem on 28 
August, 1065, to Nehorai b. Nissim, which mentions that Farah ibn Sahlan, the latter’s 
uncle, lives in Muslims’ houses, and no one comes or goes there {la dakhil wa-la kharij 


157 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


The responsibility for the life of the dhimmi 

[266] Muslim religious law did not reach a unanimous conclusion 
concerning the extent of its responsibility for the lives of the dhimmls, that 
is, whether a Muslim who kills a dhimmi is endangering his own life or 
not (or will pay the same ransom as for the killing of a Muslim). There are 
hadith traditions ascribed to the Prophet in which there is condemnation 
of the killing of a dhimmi, but at the same time, ‘ Ali was credited with the 
opinion that a Muslim who had killed an unbeliever should not be put to 
death. The genuine belief of Muhammad was in fact expressed in ‘the 
constitution of Medina’ which was drawn up a short time after the hijra, 
where it is clearly stated that a Muslim is not to be killed for the murder of 
an unbeliever, and this is clearly and specifically echoed in the Muslim 
corpus of traditions. Actually it was accepted that ransom payment for a 
dhimmi was half that of a Muslim. As to the custom in this matter during 
Mu‘awiya’s time (evidently also during the entire period of Umayyad 
rule) we can learn from the instance of Ziyad, Mu‘awiya’s step-brother, 
who was governor of Iraq. He refused to allow the execution of an Arab of 
the Banu Asad who had murdered a dhimmi (a NabatT, that is a villager 
who spoke Aramaic) and imposed on the murderer a ransom to the family 
of the murdered man, but they refused to accept it and claimed that 
according to the existing law on this matter, there was equality not only 
between Muslims amongst themselves but also between Arabs and non- 
Arabs. Hujr b. ‘Adi, one of the main followers of ‘Ali and afterwards 
leader of the opposition to Mu‘awiya in Kufa, then killed that Arab 
murderer, an act which Ziyad and Mu'awiya considered to be a guilty one, 
and on this basis had him arrested. 31 


Dress regulations 

[267] The truest indications of the inferiority of the dhimmis were the 
prohibitions regarding dress and the rest of the regulations differentiating 
them in appearance from the Muslims. The principal motive behind these 
regulations was the desire to prevent social contact between Arabs and the 
local populations. Perhaps at first there may also have been some security 
considerations, but there is no evidence of this. At any rate, the Muslims 


'alayhi)\ apparently he wants to say that no one dares to break the custom which bans 
entering there: 501, b, lines 8-12. 

31 ‘The constitution of Medina’, see Ibn Hisham, 342; Ibn Sa‘d, 1(2), 172; cf. Gil, IOS, 
4(1974), 52f, and ibid, in n. 62 further references. See the discussion on ransom money for a 
dhimmi and the responsibility for his murder: Tritton, Caliphs, 178ff. See the story of 
Ziyad in Baladhuri, Ansab, IV(A), 220. 


158 



DRESS REGULATIONS [SECS. 267-268] 


saw in these regulations a symbol of the superiority of Islam and its 
adherents. The dhimmls on the other hand saw it as evidence of their 
humiliation and it is not surprising that they tried to avoid those dis¬ 
tinguishing marks whenever possible. The prohibitions regarding dress 
are generally ascribed to the Abbasid caliphs, especially to Harun al- 
Rashid (786-809) and al-Mutawakkil (847-861), who imposed the wear¬ 
ing of yellow dress on the Christians and Jews (later, there was a differen¬ 
tiation between Christians and Jews, the colour of the Christians being 
blue). Additional marks were added, such as the interdiction on women 
with regard to silken girdles, as only cotton was allowed; distinctive 
marks while entering a public bath-house; and so on. These restrictions 
were imposed by the rulers in Palestine as well, but to the best of my 
knowledge there is nothing in the sources indicating their particular 
application in Palestine. However there is no doubt that they were theor¬ 
etically imposed in Palestine. Except that here, as elsewhere in the caliph¬ 
ate they were not rigorously observed; which is the only explanation for 
the fact that they had to be renewed from time to time. 32 

[268] An even more important question is whether these decrees really 
began only in the Abbasid era, that is in the days of Harun al-Rashid. A 
more careful examination of the earliest pacts, from the time of the 
conquest, will reveal that the embryo of these decrees exists in the early 
agreements with local populations. According to Ibn ‘Asakir’s versions of 
the pacts with the local people of Damascus and al-Sham, they were 
obliged to shorten their forelocks in the front and leave the hair loose; to 
wear girdles ( zatianir ); they must not resemble Muslims in their outward 
appearance, nor in their dress or their saddles. In addition, they had to 
differ from the Muslims in matters of culture and language; they could not 
insert Arabic in the inscriptions on their seals (there are some distorted 
versions on this matter which say the contrary), nor be called by Arab 
by-names, and they must not study the Koran nor teach it to their 
children. 33 


32 See the recommendations of Abu Yusuf, 76, to Harun al-Rashid: lest they resemble the 
Muslims in their dress, in their riding, and their outward appearance; the girdle (zunnar) 
shall be made of rough threads; they shall wear tall headgear ( qalatiis ) with holes; they shall 
place on their saddles a piece of wood resembling a pomegranate; they shall make a double 
knot in the laces of their shoes, and more. On the decrees regarding dress of al-Muta¬ 
wakkil (in 850) see Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, 1389; Mawsili, Wasa’il, 36b, quotes from al-Suli 
details of Mutawakkil’s decrees: the obligation to wear clothes the colour of honey (‘asalij, 
to ride in a special way, to attach coloured patches to the hats and the dress, to attach 
painted distinguishing signs on the entrances of the houses, and more; because of this, he 
says, many turned to Islam (and he mentions names). Cf. Sibt ibn al-jawzl, Mir’ah (BM Or 
4618), 93b; the drawings over the doors had to be of images of devils ( shayatm ); on similar 
decrees in 907/8 (the days of al-Muqtadir), see Ibn al-Jawzi, Muntazam, VI, 82. 

33 Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 505, 563f; see also Ibn ‘Abd al-Hakam, 151. 


D9 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


Freedom of worship and its limitations 

[269] The formulae of the principle of freedom of worship, with various 
restrictions, also date from the very earliest times. As early as in the treaty 
of Najran it is stated: ‘there shall be no disturbance to their religion and 
their way of life’. All the treaties I have surveyed above contain a clause 
enabling the protected people to maintain their houses of prayer, but not 
to build new ones, and according to certain versions, even to renew the old 
ones which had fallen into disrepair. The Christians had to take it upon 
themselves to practise their religious customs modestly, for example, not 
to intone the naqiis in public but only within the churches; not to conduct 
noisy processions holding the cross on high; also to be quiet and modest at 
funerals, which must not be accompanied by torches when passing 
through Muslim quarters. It appears that at the time of the conquest many 
churches and synagogues were destroyed by the invading tribes. Appar¬ 
ently the time of the destruction of the synagogues and Byzantine 
churches, whose remnants were and are still being discovered in various 
parts of Palestine, was that of the Muslim conquest or shortly afterward. 
Clear evidence of this has been preserved regarding the region of Da¬ 
mascus and the Ghawta (the valley surrounding the city), in a source 
saying that in the days of‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘Aziz, not a single undamaged 
church was found in the entire area. It seems that the fate of the syn¬ 
agogues, in the large cities at any rate, was a better one, for the Muslim 
rage to destroy churches was fed to a large extent by their hatred of the 
Byzantines, against whom they waged perpetual war. 

There is evidence of widespread destruction of the dhimmis’ houses of 
prayer in the ninth century. In 807, Harun al-Rashid decided to demolish 
all the houses of prayer of the unbelievers, but it is not clear to what extent 
this decree was carried out. It is quite possible that the intention was to 
destroy only those places of worship that were built after the Muslim 
conquests (in which case, in Baghdad for instance, all the houses of prayer 
would have been destined for destruction, as would those ofjerusalem and 
Ramla). In 850, we are again told, a decree was issued by al-Mutawakkil to 
destroy all the new places of worship of the unbelievers (and also to take 
over a tenth of their homes for the Muslims); old churches and synagogues 
which were still functional would become mosques, or at any rate, had to 
be evacuated. We have no knowledge of whether, or to what extent, these 
decrees were carried out in Palestine. 

With regard to the Christians, it appears that similar acts of destruction 
took place, also in the succeeding generations. As to the outcome of 
al-Hakim’s decrees to that effect at the outset of the eleventh century, the 
synagogues in Palestine were also destroyed. There was certainly a gap 

160 



FREEDOM OF WORSHIP; PROFESSIONS AND OFFICES [SECS. 269-270] 


between the laws and what actually took place. A notable fact is the 
existence of the synagogue in Jerusalem, confirmed by the Geniza docu¬ 
ments from the eleventh century, although there is no doubt that no 
synagogue existed there at the time of the Muslim conquest in 638. There 
were also synagogues in Ramla which were built after the conquest. In the 
middle of the eleventh century, we find an episode in connection with the 
Christians, in some unidentified place (but it seems to refer to a city in 
Palestine) who did not take into consideration the existing prohibitions at 
all and built their church even higher than the mosque, and so the church 
was demolished. (In addition, the noise of the knocking on the naqiis was 
disturbing and a nuisance to the Muslims.) 34 


Professions and offices 

[270] The religious autonomy given to thejews and the Christians is an 
issue on its own, and which was expressed in the relationship between the 
Muslim authorities and the institutions of leadership of the two communi- 

34 Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 504f, 563f; Baladhuri, Futiih, 64 (Najran). See on the destruction of the 
churches in Damascus and the whole area: ‘Imad al-DTn, Tadhkira, 21ff; see ibid, also a 
story of negotiations between the Christians and ‘Umar ibn ‘Abd al-‘Aziz, regarding 
compensation for their church in Damascus (which was destroyed by thejews according 
to Caliph al-Walld’s decision); Badri, 34f. Tabari, Ta’rikh, II, 1372, cites ‘Umar ibn ‘Abd 
al-‘Az!z’s order, which says: ‘do not destroy any Jewish or Christian house of prayer or 
any temple of the Zoroastrians, if the peace treaty permits them to maintain it, but do not 
allow them to build new ones’. One should note that the Byzantines had a similar view, as 
can be seen by a regulation found in the code ofjustinian (it is found in: Starr, Jett's, 145[no. 
83]): it is permitted to repair synagogues but not to build new ones; cf. Krauss, Melila, 3-4: 
77, 1949/50. See on the decrees of Harun al-Rashid: Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, 713; Ibn al-Athlr, 
Kamil , VI, 206. al-Mutawakkil: Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, 1390; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, VII, 52. On 
the order of destruction of Harun al-Rashid it is said that houses of worship in the ports 
( al-thugur ) were intended; as to al-Mutawakkil, included in his decrees is the destruction of 
cemeteries of the unbelievers (taswiyat quburihim ma‘a’l-ard, whose correct interpretation 
seems to be destruction, although Tabari adds: so that they should not be like the Muslim 
graves, that is, allegedly the intention was that the graves should not rise above the 
ground). See further Abu Yusuf, 141: ‘Umar ordered Abu ‘Ubayda not to disturb the 
Christians when they are taking the crosses out on the holidays, if this is done outside the 
town, but without displaying their banners, and only on one day in the year; but they are 
not allowed to take out the crosses inside the city, among the Muslims and their mosques. 
The law prohibiting the dhimmls to put up buildings (and certainly houses of worship) 
which were taller than the Muslim buildings was apparently introduced in later gener¬ 
ations; see Mez, 47 - in his opinion, this idea was taken by the west from the Muslims (one 
need not necessarily believe him), such as the complaint of Pope Innocent III, that thejews 
of Sens built a synagogue taller than the church in its neighbourhood. See his remarks in 
his letter, in: Grayzel, The Church, 106. Such a law prohibiting the building of synagogues 
is first mentioned (as far as we know) in 423, see the Theodosian Code, xvi—8, 25; it 
appears that Zeno the bishop of Verona (362-380) hinted at such a law, earlier than the 
aforementioned by nearly two generations; see: MPL, 11, 354ff. Cf. Juster, Juifs, I, 469, n. 
2; Baron, Jewish Community, III, 20f; the affair of the church which was much too tall, see: 
404, letter to Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac b. Furat, lines 14-19, according to the version in 
Gil, Te’uda, 7(1991), 332. 


161 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


ties in Palestine. A basic fact was the uninterrupted existence of these 
institutions for almost the entire period, with a varying degree of inter¬ 
vention on the part of the authorities in their affairs. 

Although the Muslim law did not impose any restrictions on the econ¬ 
omic affairs of the dhimmis - on the contrary, the Muslims were 
interested, as soon as their reign was established, that the dhimmis should 
continue to pursue their occupations, as we have seen - there was a distinct 
opposition to the dhimmis holding any public posts, as outlined in 
Muslim law. True, this is not formulated in any of the early sources in 
which legal principles with regard to the dhimmis are to be found, and 
dealing with other areas, from the Koran onwards, but one can rely on the 
approach of the caliph ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab in this matter. 

It was natural that at the beginning of the conquest, the Muslims had to 
continue to employ officials who served in the former administration, for 
they had no people of their own who could fill administrative posts, 
particularly with regard to finance. It is said that ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab 
himself appointed a number of the captives of Caesarea as administrative 
officials. One can also assume that Jewish and Christian physicians were 
called upon to serve at the courts of the caliphs in their professional 
capacities. On the other hand, it is told that ‘Umar one day requested from 
Abu Musa al-Ash‘ari to bring his secretary to him to read him some letters 
from al-Sham, and that Abu Musa replied that he could not bring the 
secretary into the mosque. When ‘Umar asked him the reason for this, he 
disclosed that the secretary was a Christian. This roused ‘Umar’s wrath 
and he read him the words from the Koran (surat al-ma’ida, v:56) ‘Oh, ye 
believers, do not take Jews or Christians as your aides, for they aid one 
another’. It is known from the Egyptian papyri, however, and even from 
Muslim sources, that the Umayyads employed dhimmis, particularly 
Christians (from families that had formerly been Byzantine officials) in 
administrative posts. We have already seen a few such instances above, 
particularly the family of Sarjun b. Mansur of Damascus. Some of them 
converted to Islam, and certainly since they were mawalT, their advance 
would have been much more rapid than if they had maintained their 
former religion. In the Abbasid period as well, we find Christians serving 
in administrative positions despite the fact that, from time to time, the 
caliphs issued orders prohibiting their employment, such as al-Muqtadir’s 
order in 908/9. The participation of both Christian and Jewish dhimmis in 
various administrative roles was particularly marked in the days of the 
Fatimids. In this sphere, we have considerable information from both 
Arab sources and from the Geniza documents, and below we shall encoun¬ 
ter central figures in the Fatimid political scene who were Jews (some of 
whom converted to Islam), and who were involved in the affairs of 



MATTERS OF INHERITANCE; MUSLIM COURTS [SECS. 271-274] 


Palestine, such as Manasseh ibn Abraham al-Qazzaz, Jacob ibn Killis, the 
Tustari brothers and others. There was even a governor injerusalem who 
was a Karaite (Ibn ‘Allun) and a government official injerusalem who was 
a Samaritan, for example. 35 


Matters of inheritance; Muslim courts 

[271] Another sphere in which Muslim law influenced the life of the 
dhimmls was that of the property of the family, and I refer here to the laws 
of inheritance. In general, the law recognised the right of Jews and Chris¬ 
tians to deal with matters of inheritance according to their own laws as the 
leaders and judges of the community interpreted them. There was, 
however, an inclination to confiscate dhimmls’ property when they died 
without male heirs, although they first allotted to the widows and daugh¬ 
ters what was their due in Muslim law (according to which the women and 
daughters have a share in the inheritance). According to a hadith, the 
Prophet said that a Muslim does not inherit from the unbeliever nor does 
the unbeliever inherit from the Muslim, a rule which is in keeping with the 
basic Muslim approach which places considerable weight on the religious 
partnership in human relationships - an emphasis which gives them 
priority over family relationships. This approach is very objective on the 
surface, for accordingly a Jew who converts to Christianity loses his rights 
of inheritance as well, as does one who converts to Islam. However, at 
variance with this is another hadith of the Prophet which says that Islam 
only brings about profit and not loss ( al-islam yazid wa-la yanqus). 36 

[272] In the Muslim law of inheritance there was a loophole, which 

35 Caesarea: Baladhurl, Futiih, 142, the case of Abu Musa: Ibn Qutayba, ' Uyiin, I, 43; GhazI 
ibn al-Wasitl, 387ff; cf. Beilin, JA, 4e ser., 18(1851), 428; see also Tritton, Caliphs, 18, and 
see there on pp. 19ff many additional details on the employment of Christians in adminis¬ 
trative posts in various places of the Muslim world during the period under discussion. See 
Nuwayri, VIII, 198f; according to him Greek was no longer being used in financial 
management in the days of ‘Abd al-Malik, since the year AH 81, that is AD 700, after a 
Greek official urinated into the ink. The caliph then ordered Sulayman b. Sa‘d to introduce 
Arabic script; it was first used in matters of taxes in jund Urdunn. Afterwards he 
transferred him to Damascus, where he was put in the place of the Christian Sarjun. The 
employing of local administrative officials is shown by the Egyptian papyri; for instance, 
the case of a Christian who still bore the title dux, while the Arabs call him ‘the honourable 
amir’, see: Lewis, PEQ, 80(1948), 112. Al-Muqtadir’s order: Ibn al-jawzl, Muntazam, VI, 
81. See also the survey in Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 374fFon this subject: ‘Non- 
Muslim government officials’ (and see ibid, the corresponding notes), based on Geniza 
documents. 

36 See a comprehensive discussion of this subject: Schreiner, REJ, 29(1894), 208, and the 
supplement ibid., 212. The hadlths are cited in many places; see, for instance, Malik, 255 
(No. 728); Tayalisl, 77, 87; Ibn al-Athlr, Jami‘, X, 366ff. There were legists who accepted 
the first hadith as it stands and rejected the authenticity of the other, that is, they claimed 
that the Muslim cannot inherit from the unbeliever; see Ibn al-jawzl, Mawdii'dt, III, 230; 
Tritton, Caliphs, 136. 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


allowed for appeal to the Muslim court, in the hope that the cadi would 
grant the claimant advantages he could not have obtained at the hands of 
thejewish court, particularly when speaking of women. Also with regard 
to divorce, we know that when the husband refused to grant a divorce, 
there were some women who applied to the Muslim court. Of this, we 
have the evidence of Sherira Gaon, who points out in one of his responsa, 
that a short time after the conquest of Babylonia by the Muslims, when 
Rabba was the head of the yeshiva in Pumbedita, and Huna in Sura (about 
650), an amendment ( taqqana ) was decided upon, named after the daugh¬ 
ter-in-law of Rav Zavld; this amendment prescribed that the husband 
must give the wife a divorce immediately, on condition that she renounce 
what is written in the marriage deed ( ketubba ), because ‘the daughters of 
Israel were relying on the gentiles to get their divorce by force’. Naturally, 
at such an early date, there was still no clear-cut Muslim law with regard to 
divorce, and one can only view this information as incidental evidence of 
the Muslim authorities’ intervention in instances in which the woman 
succeeded in convincing them that she had been mistreated and that the 
Jewish decision had been contrary to their sense of natural justice. 37 

[273] This tendency to apply to the cadi can be seen injewish sources of 
the period. One can assume that similar processes occurred among the 
Christians, but we have no specific knowledge of this. Thejewish public, 
for whom the authority of their court was the very nerve centre of 
religious-national uniqueness, opposed this tendency by emphasising 
again and again the ancient prohibition on appealing to the gentile law 
courts. The common attitude was that one could apply to them in com¬ 
mercial and financial matters but not with regard to property (‘. . . we only 
admit deeds of purchase and the like; but we do not admit deeds of gift and 
the like’). It was accepted that one needed a special authorisation from the 
Jewish court in order to give evidence in the gentile courts; they would 
also find a way to permit this when speaking of ‘robbery’ (gezel , like 
non-payment of a debt), on condition that it was ‘a gentile court which 
does not accept bribes and is non-biased’. A verdict or deeds acquired by 
the coercion of the Muslim court, or the Muslim authorities, were usually 
considered absolutely invalid. There is mention of a conflict concerning 
estates belonging to a woman who had converted; the husband considered 
her as good as dead and that he was her heir, while her paternal family 


37 See the letter of Sherira (Lewin), 101 and ibid, in the note the text of his responsum to the 
scholars of Qayrawan and more references of the editor. Nevertheless in certain instances 
Muslim law was prepared to acknowledge the right of the women to receive a divorce 
even without the agreement of the husband; and see the article Talak (by J. Schacht) in EP 
(who mentions this possibility, but does not go into detail); and see also Schacht, 
Introduction, 165f. 



MATTERS OF INHERITANCE; MUSLIM COURTS [SEC. 271-274] 


demanded her property for themselves and the Babylonian Gaon decided 
in favour of her family. The opinion of the Palestinian Geonim was also 
that the marriage deed of the woman who had converted belonged to her 
family. The Geonim permitted the decision to rest with the Muslim court 
and with its help, invalidated the right of inheritance of a Jew who had 
converted, for ‘the Muslims, according to the law of Ishmael, do not allow 
a convert to inherit the properties of his father; thereupon our Sages relied 
so as to deprive such a man of his father’s inheritance. . ,’ 38 

[274] The reality that emerges from the Geniza documents in the 
eleventh century AD is of a strong Jewish legal autonomy, and the 
Palestinian Gaon is ready to assert his authority vigorously in those cases 
in which one party appeals for help from the Muslim court; this party can 
expect excommunication. On the other hand, the habit of registering deals 
of estates with the Muslim court as well as with the Jewish court became 
widespread, evidently because of demands from the tax authorities and 
also, perhaps, because of the need to feel more secure in the face of pressure 
and expropriation. A document written in Arabic and signed by the cadi 
certainly made the required impression on the authorities. 

As to Palestine, apart from the information mentioned above concern¬ 
ing the attitude of its Geonim in the matter of the marriage deed of the 
woman who had converted, all our knowledge of this matter is derived 
from the Geniza, that is, from the eleventh century. The first source is 
from the days of Josiah Gaon b. Aaron, in around 1020. This is a letter 
from the Gaon to the community of Rafiah (Rafah): ‘A’isha (a distinctly 
Arab name), daughter of Joseph b. Sudayq (a pet name for Sadaqa), had 
died. Her cousins on her father’s side, Moses and Abraham, the sons of 
Mansur, son of Sudayq, applied to the local dayyan, who was Solomon b. 
Saadia, and he decided that they were the heirs of their cousin. ‘ Amram b. 
Fudayl (a pet name from Fadl) and his sister and her son Khalaf b. 
Mukarram claimed that the legacy was theirs (it is not clear what degree of 
family relationship there was between them and the deceased; perhaps 
they were the brother and sister and nephew of her husband, who un¬ 
doubtedly died before she did). It seems that we have here an instance of 
difference between the paternal family and that of the husband, though 
this is merely an assumption. They applied to the Muslim court, to the 
cadi, and he made the same decision as the dayyan. Then they applied to 


38 See Harkavy, Teshuvot, 51 (No. 82); Ge’one mizraij u-ma'arav, 53a-53b (No. 199); A special 
permit: Osar ha-ge’omm, BQ, 99(No. 290, Hayy Gaon). Acts of coercion: the responsum 
of Saadia Gaon, Ge’one mizrah u-ma'arav, 8a-8b (No. 22). The woman who had converted 
(evidently to Christianity): Ge’one mizrah u-ma'arav, 20b (No. 87): the view of the 
Palestinians (‘the westerners’): Sha'are sedeq, 63b; depriving a convert from inheritance: 
Ge’one mizrah u-ma'arav, 4b (No. 11); Osar ha-ge’omm, Qidd., 30f (Nos. 78—90); see the 


165 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 

the qa’id, the government authority (apparently a Turkish or Berber 
commander, in charge of affairs on behalf of the Fatimids) and they 
managed to get part of the legacy with his help. The Gaon pronounced 
them excommunicated; Sahl, the aforementioned ‘Amram b\ Fudayl’s 
brother (it is not clear why ‘Amram himself was not indicated) was 
obliged to appear together with his sister before the great court (that is, the 
yeshiva injerusalem) and hand over what they had taken. If he refused, he 
too would be excommunicated. 

At about the same time there occurred the affair of Mubaraka, in which 
a memorandum of the court complained that she had evaded the verdict of 
the court and applied to the Muslim court, to the ‘Judge of judges’ 
(. qadT’l-qudah ). She demanded her share of her father’s legacy through the 
medium of the ‘gentile laws’ (for, as mentioned above, Muslim law grants 
a share of a legacy to daughters as well). Because of her, the infantry 
(probably the rijala, soldiers in the service of the Execution Office) 
arrested her brother, who escaped, however. Clearly the appellants rely 
on the Gaon’s opposition to applications to the gentile court. Solomon b. 
Judah writes, probably in 1028, to Ephraim b. Shemaria in Fustat, men¬ 
tioning a man of Jerusalem who was reduced to poverty and went to 
Egypt. In spite of the very poor state of the manuscript, it can still be 
understood that this person fell victim to someone who did not hesitate to 
apply to a Muslim court, and caused him to lose all his property, including 
‘his house and that of his son-in-law, and land inherited from his 
forefathers’. 

In August 1030, Abraham, son of the Gaon Solomon b. Judah, is in 
Fustat, when the court there examines the complaints of a certain Sulay¬ 
man, a smith of Jerusalem, against Salman b. Shablb al-Ashqar (the 
redhead), who owes Sulayman four dinars. Salman lives in Fustat and the 
claim against him is brought by Yefet ha-Levi b. Tobiah, who holds ‘a 
deed of attorney validated by the signature of his honour, the great and 
holy Lord and Master, Solomon, head of the yeshiva Ge’on Ya‘aqov\ 
When the court found in favour of Sulayman the Jerusalemite, Salman 
began ‘to complain and curse and storm against the laws of Israel and its 
judges; and this Salman swore that he would not accept but the gentile 
laws . . .’; the judge in Fustat, Ephraim b. Shemaria immediately decreed a 
ban on him ‘until he agreed to accept the verdict’. 

In around 1030 Solomon b. Judah writes to Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac 
b. Furat about a deposit demanded by Samuel b. ‘Ezrun, the fiance of the 
Gaon’s granddaughter, from a man called NissI (the deposit was left with 
Nissi by Samuel’s mother). Nissi demanded to be judged by the cadi, but 

discussion on these questions: Mann, JQi?, NS 10(1919/20), 140f; 11(1920/21), 457; see 

also Hirschberg, Herzog Memorial Volume: 493. 



MATTERS OF INHERITANCE; MUSLIM COURTS [SEC. 271-274] 


his wife sharply objected to this. Although Solomon b. judah refused to sit 
in judgment on this dispute, as he was Samuel’s relative, the family of 
Shuway 1 , that is the family of Joshua b. Simhun, rivals of the Gaon, 
accused him of siding with one of the contestants, and the Gaon requests 
Abraham ha-Kohen, a respectable physician who lives in Ramla, to get the 
support of the amir (the governor of Ramla) who should write to his 
colleague (the governor of Jerusalem) not to pay attention to these accu¬ 
sations. Some time afterwards, perhaps from 1035, we find another letter 
from Solomon b. Judah to Ramla, to the same Abraham ha-Kohen, also 
dealing with the Shuway' family. This time the Gaon writes in their 
favour, although they are people who ‘oppose anything done by someone 
else’. He asks Abraham to try to intervene with the cadi in Ramla, 
Abu’l-Ma‘ali (evidently he is al-Musharraf b. al-Murajja b. Ibrahim al- 
Maqdisi, author of the fadd’il, a work mentioned occasionally in this book) 
concerning the house of the Shuway' family. The house was confiscated 
on the basis of false evidence in favour of an old Muslim named al-Shaml, a 
malicious person who was co-owner of the house. The Gaon and all the 
other Jews of Jerusalem know the truth, that the house is in fact the 
property of the Shuway‘ family. 

In Jerusalem, one would proclaim a ban on the seventh day of the Feast 
of Tabernacles, at the gathering on the Mount of Olives, on people who 
applied to a Muslim court. We have evidence of this in a letter of complaint 
written by the orphan daughters of a certain Dosa. The eldest daughter 
turns to the public on her own behalf and that of her younger sister, 
complaining that they were deprived of their share of their father’s legacy 
by their two married sisters, and her remarks include the following phrase: 
‘you use to proclaim a ban, on the Mount of Olives, against anyone who 
obtains an inheritance in a Muslim court’. 

Solomon b. Judah reveals in one ofhis letters that the influence of this act 
of excommunication did not have much effect; expressing his opposition 
to the annual excommunication of the Karaites, as was the accepted 
custom of the Rabbanites in Jerusalem, he states (in a letter written 
apparently in 1035, whose addressee we do not know): 

. . . (you say) let us excommunicate who desecrates the Sabbath of God! but the 
majority do desecrate it; is there anyone keeping the Sabbath as is prescribed? And 
anyone who desecrates the holidays of God; but they [the Karaites] say that it is we 
who desecrate them; and anyone who applies to the laws of the gentiles and 
whoever obtains an inheritance by their laws; nevertheless, many whom our laws 
do not favour, apply to the laws of the gentiles . . . 

Indeed, in the Geniza documents there is clear evidence that in Palestine 
Jews did not hesitate to turn to the cadi when it seemed useful or necessary. 
A deed of attorney written in Tyre at the end of 1036 or the beginning of 


167 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


1037, validated in Fustat, of which only a fragment is preserved, includes a 
power of attorney given by his mother and two sisters to Joseph ha-Levi b. 
Saadia to collect money owing to the deceased father of the family. It says 
there that he was also provided with a letter ‘to the elders of the Ish- 
maelites, so that no one would hinder him and that no one would express 
doubts in the matter’. Apparently it refers to a confirmation intended for 
the Muslim courts. In a draft of evidence regarding the sale of a shop in 
Tiberias, a transaction carried out in 1023, it is noted that the draft is a copy 
according to al-maMar al-'arabl, that is according to the document of the 
court which was in Arabic script, and such a document could only have 
been written in the Muslim court. In a draft of a deed of attorney written in 
Tyre, apparently in 1041, we find an accounting between partners after the 
death of one of them, Manasseh b. Isaac. It mentions that he received 
goods according to a list ‘in hagari [Arabic] writing’, and that they used 
‘documents of the gentile courts’ drawn up by ‘the judge who lives in the 
city of Tyre’. Avon b. Sedaqa, the Maghribi merchant (of the circle of 
Nehorai b. Nissim), who lived in Jerusalem, writes from there on 
17 March 1055, to Hayyim b. ‘Ammar in Alexandria. His letter is filled 
with complaints about conspiracies and judgments against himself, with¬ 
out clarifying the matter - accusing Hayyim, for instance, of‘gobbling up 
the money of the Maghribi gentleman’. His opponents pour abuse on him 
in the Muslim legal institutions, ‘and things have come to such a pass that 
if a governor [‘amil] or supervisor of bequests [sahib mawanth] were to be 
appointed every week, they would approach him [every week] in this 
matter’. 39 

59 See the discussion on applications to Muslim courts and the relationship between the two 
legal systems, in Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 395-402, and the corresponding notes. 
The Rafiah episode: 43; Mubaraka: 44; it seems that the applicants are members of the 
Karaite community (or one of the Karaite communities) in Fustat, and among the 
witnesses we find the signature of Joseph b. Israel al-Dustari, that is of the family of the 
Tustaris, who were Karaites. Here there is proof apparently that the Gaon of Palestine was 
considered by the authorities as being responsible for all Jewish matters, including those of 
the Karaites in the Fatimid caliphate; cf. Gil, ha-Tustariin, 45, 49ff; Solomon b. Judah’s 
letter. 75, b, lines 20ff; the episode of Sulayman thejerusalemite: 102; the debtor Salman b. 
Shablb, is mentioned in the deed TS 13 J 9, f. 5, dated Thursday, 19th of Tammuz, 
AM 4807, or 16July AD 1047, drafted in Mahdiyya and validated in Fustat by Ephraim b. 
Shemaria and others. The episode of Samuel b. ‘Ezrun: 101; the house of the Shuway 1 
family: 117; on Abu’l-Ma‘ali al-Musharraf b. al-Murajja, see below; the orphans’ com¬ 
plaint, apparently from the beginning of the eleventh century: 217; Solomon b. Judah on 
the ban: 121, lines 5ff; one should note that his comments on the gentile courts have no 
direct connection with the matter of the Karaites, he says this only to exemplify the lack of 
logic in the proclamations of excommunication. It is worth noting that the Karaites also 
emphasised the ban on having recourse to Muslim courts; see the marriage deed of the 
Karaite woman wedded to a Rabbanite, Bodl MS Heb a 3, f. 42 (partly edited by Mann, 
Jews, II, 212, and in full: Texts, II, 177ff) from 1428Sel. (AD 1117; there is an error in Mann 
on this matter and see Goitein’s corrections ibid, in the preface), and ibid, the passage ‘and 
they shall not apply to judgments of the gentiles in exchange for the judgments of the 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275-334] 

The population and localities 

[275] Undoubtedly, one of the most obscure subjects concerning this 
period is that of the population and localities. The basic fact that should 
serve as a starting point in this discussion is that at the time of the conquest, 
Palestine was inhabited by Jews and Christians. The Arab tribes were to be 
found in the border areas, in keeping with arrangements made with the 
Byzantine rulers. There is no doubt that many of the small towns and 
villages were destroyed during the conquest, and one can imagine that the 
war and the slaughter of the population considerably decreased its 
numbers. It appears that the map of localities was no longer what it had 
been even after ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab introduced order in the relations 
between the Muslim tribes and the local population. We now know that 
out of ninety-three towns in the Sharon of which a geographical survey 
provides evidence during the Roman-Byzantine eras, only fifty-two 
remained at the end of the Crusader period. Towns in the western strip 
and the central strip (the region of the red sand hills and the swamps) in the 
Sharon, decreased from fifty-eight to seventeen! It is estimated that the 
erosion of the soil from the western slopes of the Judaean mountains 
reached - as a result of the agricultural uprooting during the Muslim 
period — the gigantic extent of 2,000 to 4,000 cubic metres. In a survey 
made by Guy in 1938 on the region of Rehovot-Ramla-Lod-Ramallah, he 
found that out of 293 towns, 193 were abandoned, apparently mainly 
because of soil erosion. We find direct evidence of the destruction of 
agriculture and the desertion of the villages in the fact that the papyri of 
Nessana are completely discontinued after the year 700. One can assume 
that at that time the inhabitants abandoned the place, evidently because of 
the inter-tribal warfare among the Arabs which completely undermined 
the internal security of the area. 40 

Torah’; see the same saying also in the Karaite marriage deed which precedes this by some 
hundred years, from January 1028: 305, lines 32-33. See also Benjamin al-Nihawandi, 3a: 
‘and it is not permitted to apply to a court of the idolaters in a difference with someone of 
Israel, even when they judge according to the laws of the Torah, as it is said: these are the 
judgments which thou shalt set before them (Ex., xxi:l); Israel may judge Israel’. See a 
slightly different version in Mann, Jews, II, 156, n. 3; the power-of-attorney from Tyre: 
274, line 8; the shop in Tiberias: 245, line 14; power-of-attorney deed: 276, a, lines 6, 
10-13; Avon b. Sedaqa: 497, lines 12-17. See also 84, b, II, lines 20ff, about the Jew who 
mediated with the Muslim authorities with regard to taxes and legacies, until ‘anyone 
whose relative died had to go to him to write a petition for him to the government officials 
in charge of inheritances [this is certainly what is meant here by ashab al-mawawrlth] 
certifying that the deceased had heirs’. 

40 Guy, 1EJ, 4:77, 1954; Karmon, BJPES, 23: 111, 1959 (and especially the table on p. 130); 
cf. Ashtor, Soda! and Economic History, 52ff; see also Kochavi (ed.), Yehuda, 24, data on the 
state of the towns in Judaea (in the mountains and in the Shejela) in the Byzantine period, 
when the density of the population reached its peak. On Nessana see: Nessana, 35; the 
assumption of the editor that the destruction was caused by the Abbasid revolution has no 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 

[276] There is no reason to assume that the proportions in the structure 
of the population varied drastically in the period in question, although it is 
very likely that the population diminished. In other words, one should not 
assume that the Muslims were the majority during this period. Al-Istakhrl 
mentions in 951 that in all of jund Filastin there were approximately 
twenty mosques, as against some sixty Christian houses of worship at the 
beginning of the ninth century. 

During the days of the Umayyads, the Muslim element consisted, as we 
have seen, mainly of tribes who derived their livelihood from taxes from 
the subdued population. It seems probable that in this early period the 
Muslims did not implant real roots in the towns of Palestine, and certainly 
not in agriculture. We have already seen above that at the time of the 
conquest, the inhabitants of Tiberias had to give up part of their dwellings 
in order to house the Muslim tribesmen. One can assume that the same 
conditions were imposed in other cities in Palestine as well, and that from 
then on, the tribes constituted a certain part of the population; but we have 
no way of knowing the size of that part. During the Abbasid and success¬ 
ive periods, when Palestine was ruled from Egypt, there was certainly a 
marked decrease in the importance of the tribes and their place was largely 
taken by the prominent element of non-Arab Muslim military personnel 
and government officials, as well as religious personnel. This latter el¬ 
ement certainly did not reach impressive demographic proportions and its 
numerical weight was very marginal, although naturally it is this element 
on which details are preserved in the Muslim sources. I have summarised 
above what is known of Muslim personalities in Palestine, and of men of 
religion and officialdom, during the period of the Damascene caliphate. 
Below, I shall deal with personalities who were active subsequently, until 
the Crusaders’ conquest. One should remember that in this field of the 
demographic portrait of the population, we are almost entirely dependant 
on Arab sources, while the attention which these sources paid to the 
dhimmls was negligible. This fact lends singular significance to those 
scraps of information which have somehow reached us through the 
medium of these sources. Thus, for instance, we find in Ibn ‘Asakir the 

foundation, for the documents stop two generations earlier. Cf. also Lewis, PEQ, 
80(1948), 115f, who also points out that the distress of the inhabitants became acute after 
the year 700 and conditions became unbearable, partly due to the general political situation 
and partly because of the worsening attitude to the dhimmls, and the Negev became a 
wasteland. The Karaite commentator Yefet b. ‘All expresses awareness of the fact that 
there was great destruction in Palestine and that there were places which remained 
uninhabited while there were other places to which people returned and settled. See his 
interpretation of Is., 61:4 (And they shall build the old wastes, etc.), Ms. Paris 287, fol. 2a: 
‘the places which were completely destroyed so that no memory of them remains, like 
Samaria . , . and the second pair are the places which have been destroyed and ruined, but 
despite this there are guards and people living there, such as Hebron and others’). 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275-334] 

information about the Jew Yahya b. Irmiya (that is, ‘the son of Jeremiah’) 
who in the days of Harun al-Rashld (when Ibrahim b. Muhammad al- 
Mahdl was governor of Damascus, in about 800) joined two of the 
partisans of the Umayyads and together they practised highway robbery. 
From the account of their adventures and capture, it would appear as if this 
was a kind of resistance movement against the Abbasids, and I shall 
describe the matter in greater detail below. Of particular interest is the 
passage which states that Yahya was ‘from the Jews living in the Balqa” 
(min yahiid al-balqa’) and so we learn that at that time, there was still a 
Jewish population in southern Trans-Jordan. With even greater justifi¬ 
cation, we can assume that there were relatively largejewish communities 
in places less distant from the centres of government, in the cities of 
Ramla, Tiberias, Tyre, Acre, Haifa, Ascalon, Gaza, Hebron, Rafiah and 
Eilat; thejewish community ofjerusalem is a subject on its own. As to the 
rural population, in the main it was still Christian on the eve of the 
Crusaders’ conquest, and here we have the explicit evidence of the dis¬ 
tinguished Andalusian writer Ibn al-‘ArabI, who is Abu Bakr Muhammad 
b. ‘Abdallah al-Ma‘afiri al-Ishblll (man of Seville), who stayed in Jerusa¬ 
lem in the years 1093-1095, and who states very clearly that: ‘.. . the 
country is theirs [the Christians’] because it is they who work its soil, 
nurture its monasteries and maintain its churches’. 41 

[277-279] Jerusalem was certainly inhabited mainly by Christians 
during the entire period. We have the specific evidence of the Jerusalemite 
Shams al-Dln al-MuqaddasI, writing at the end of the tenth century, the 
outset of Fatimid rule in Palestine, that there were few learned Muslim 
religious personalities ('ulama ’) in Jerusalem. According to him, most of 
the inhabitants of the city were Christians and Jews . 42 The strength of the 
Christians in Jerusalem is also borne out by the events occurring during 
the first two generations of the Fatimid reign, when the Christians (mostly 
but not only the Jerusalemites) collaborated with the Bedouin in their 
struggle against the Fatimids and indirectly against the Jews as well, as 
Karaite sources indicate. At the beginning of the eleventh century Samuel 
b. Isaac ha-Sefaradi (the Spaniard) writes from Jerusalem, apparently, to 
Shemaria b. Elhanan, leader of the ‘Babylonians’ in Fustat (the letter was 


41 The number of mosques: Istakhri, 58; cf. Mez, 388; Y ahya b. Irmiya: Ibn ‘ Asakir, II, 267, 
see Ibn al-‘ArabI, Rihla, 81: al-bildd lahum ya'kuruna diya'ahum wa-yaltazimuna adyaraha 
wa-yu'ammirutta kand'isaha. According to Prawer, Ha-salvamm, I, 129, most of the inhabi¬ 
tants of Palestine on the eve of the Crusaders’ conquest were Muslims; but he does not 
indicate his sources. The information concerning the extent of the Muslim population in 
Palestine during the Crusaders’ period is not unequivocal, and at any rate one cannot learn 
from it about the period under discussion. See on this question the article by Cahen, Syria, 
15:351, 1934, and especially pp. 356f. 

42 Muqaddasi, AqdlTm, 167; copied from him by Yaqut, Buldan, IV, 596. 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


written before 1011, the year of Shemaria’s death). In the letter he de¬ 
scribes the affairs of a proselyte who abandoned Christianity and fled from 
his home in Damascus in order to be among Jews. He came from a notable 
family and influential Christians were trying to persuade him to return to 
his former faith, but even an offer of money did not entice him to return to 
Christianity. Samuel b. Isaac found this proselyte in Jerusalem together 
withjewish pilgrims from Damascus, and was told by him that he wished 
to leave Jerusalem and go to Fustat, for in Jerusalem the Christians were 
persecuting him: ‘the ‘arelim [the uncircumcised] curse him again and 
again all the time’. Their influence is considerable, because they have ‘most 
of the secretaries governing the lands’ (that is: many government of¬ 
ficials]. 43 Studying the sources of the period, one is inevitably impressed 
by the considerable proportion of Christians in the population. Cahen 
notes that at the end of the eleventh century there was evidently numeric 
equality between Christians and Muslims in Palestine and Syria. One 
must bear in mind that this eminent scholar was not familiar withjewish 
sources, particularly the Geniza documents, for he would then have been 
impressed by the number ofjews as well. 44 

[280] As to the Muslims in Jerusalem, from the little we know, these 
were mostly religious personalities or people who came to gather in the 
shadow of the Sakhra in the belief that the place had a holy character; it 
appears that most of them were immigrants from distant lands. Shams 
al-Din al-MuqaddasI himself states that his mother’s family (his akhwal) 
came from Biyar in the region of Qumis, and he points out that quite a 
number of the Muslims from Qumis living in Jerusalem came from Biyar. 
(It is interesting that at about the same time, the beginning of the tenth 
century, a central figure from among the Karaites arrived in Jerusalem 
from Qumis, Daniel al-QumisI.) Further on, we shall encounter many 
Muslim personalities who lived injerusalem who were immigrants from 
various parts of the Muslim world. 45 

[281] Nasir Khusraw points out that many Muslims came tojerusalem 
because they could not reach Mecca. According to him, more than 20,000 
men assembled (that is, in Dhu’l-hijja) in Jerusalem, but one cannot 
ascertain whether he meant the number of pilgrims or all the Muslims then 

43 See ULC Or 1080J 115, printed by Golb, Sejunot, 8 (1963/4), 88ff. 

44 Cahen, Past and Present, 6(1954), 6f. 

45 Muqaddasi, Aqdlim, 357; on Biyar, which is Biyar Jumand, see Le Strange, Lands, 366; 
MuqaddasI himself, ibid. 356f, describes the place: a small town, which has no major 
mosque (jatni r ) and its people make their living from plantations and raising sheep and 
camels; the place is to the south-east of the Caspian Sea, on the edge of the great desert (see 
Maps V and VIII in Le Strange, ibid., opposite pp. 185, 335). Also the old Muslim who 
deprived the Shuway 1 family of their house injerusalem (see above), was an immigrant, as 
can be seen from his name - al-Shaml - probably from Syria. 


172 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275-334] 

found in the city (Nasir Khusraw stayed in Jerusalem in the spring of 
1046). 46 

[282] We have some information on the population of Ramla, which 
was founded by the Muslims, as mentioned above, and incorporated the 
inhabitants of Lod. Authentic written evidence of the Muslim part of the 
population of Ramla is the dedicatory inscription ( waqf ) of an inn (Junduq), 
from the year 913. We can presume that there were also Christian inhabi¬ 
tants in Ramla, the outcome of the transfer of Christians from Lod to the 
new city. The only remaining written evidence (as far as we know) of the 
existence of Christians in Ramla is a funerary inscription of a certain Jabur, 
dated 14 April 943. According to Ya'qubi (writing in around 890) tribes¬ 
men and non-Arabs were living in Ramla side by side (akhldt min al-nas min 
al-'arab wa’l-'ajam), and he adds that the dhimmis there were Samaritans 
(wa-dhimmatuha sdmira). This addition is undoubtedly distorted, for we are 
well aware that many Jews lived in Ramla and there were certainly also 
Christians there, but it seems that Ya'qubi, after the opening sentence, had 
a list of what he calls ‘ajam, and from this list, only the word Samaritans 
remains, and this was at the end of the list. 47 

[283] Later on we shall see that Ramla is frequently mentioned in the 
Geniza documents. For the time being, it will suffice to point to the fact 
that as it was on the highway to Jerusalem it served as an assembly point 
for pilgrims. Apparently the Jewish population of Ramla was greater than 
that of Jerusalem, and some of the heads of the Jerusalem yeshiva built 
themselves houses in Ramla, and visited the city frequently. Solomon b. 
Judah stayed there at the beginning of the winter of 1040, and as he had no 
house of his own in Ramla, he stayed with a Jew of Ramla, whose 
daughter was an abandoned wife (' aguna ). He states that he could no 
longer bear her weeping and complaints and therefore decided to cut short 

46 Nasir Khusraw, 20 (text), 66 (translation). 

47 See the waqfinscripdon in Ramla: Sharon, Arabica, 13:77, 1966. The funerary inscription: 
Sharon, Shalem, 1:1, 1974, and a comprehensive discussion therein, in which he explains 
that al-sabt al-kabir, the great sabbath, was among the Eastern Christians the sabbath before 
Easter; this fact and the fact that the inscription is in Arabic script exclude the possibility of 
its being a Jewish inscription. See an extended version of his discussion: Sharon, Arabic and 
Islamic Studies (Bar Ilan), 2:31, 1978; Ya'qubi, Buldan, 328; cf. Ashtor, AESC, 27(1972), 
188; contrary to his opinion, the meaning of ‘ajam here is not Persians, though it frequently 
does mean this, but the initial meaning of this root is: non-Arab, see for instance: Ibn 
al-Athir, Jdmi‘, III, 354; Ibn ‘Asakir, VI, 185; Tabari, Ta’rikh, I, 2374f; Muqaddasi, Bad’, 
V, 33. Apart from this, one should note that Ya'qubi himself, when he wishes to speak of 
Persians in Palestine, uses the word Persians ( al-jurs ). See for instance what he writes about 
Itrabulus and Jubayl, ibid., 327; see what he writes about Nabulus, ibid., 328f; ‘wa-biha 
akhldt min al-'arab wa’l-'ajam waj-sdmira’ (‘they live there side by side - the tribesmen, 
the non-Arabs and the Samaritans’); also here, as in reference to Ramla, words have been 
deleted from the list after the expression ‘ajam. On the other hand, see what he says on 
Egypt, ibid., 340: wa-'ajam misr jami'uha al-qibt, all the ‘ajam of Egypt are Copts, which 
shows that here he is using the word to mean Christians. 


173 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


his visit to the city. In another letter, Solomon b. Judah mentions Solomon 
b. Semah al-‘Attar (‘the perfume dealer’) who would render services to 
every learned man who came to Ramla. In the middle of the eleventh 
century, the influential Jewish physician Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac b. 
Furat lived in Ramla. He was a man of considerable influence with the 
authorities, who shall be spoken of further. In about 1035, Abraham b. 
Samuel ‘the third’, asks Abraham ha-Kohen to use his influence to rid the 
area around the synagogue of Abu ‘All b. Ayyub (perhaps a Muslim, if one 
is to judge by the name Ayyub, which was very rare among Jews), who 
built himself a little house near the miqwe, the ritual bath-house, and an 
upper story opposite the entrance hall of the synagogue, and was growing 
vegetables on the plot of a ruined house which belonged to the synagogue. 
Abraham is asked to try to persuade him at first in a gentle manner, and to 
get him to demolish the buildings that were set up illegally. There were 
three Jewish communities in Ramla: the Jerusalemites, the Babylonians 
and the Karaites. From the expression al-kanisa al-wusta, the synagogue in 
the middle, one learns that in the eleventh century there were three 
synagogues. As one can deduce from the documents, it was customary to 
state in a deed: ‘Ramla, the city near Lod’, a reminder of the days when Lod 
was the major centre and Ramla insignificant. In a letter written in Febru¬ 
ary 1039 by Nathan b. Abraham, Solomon b. Judah’s rival, it is mentioned 
that some 400 people gathered in the main hall in Ramla on Purim - more 
than that in the qa‘a (entrance hall) - among them some 200 Karaites. From 
this we may learn that there were approximately a thousand Jewish 
families, that is about 5,000 souls, of whom 20 per cent were Karaites. 48 

[284] Tiberias was the capital of jund Urdunn, as we have seen, and it 
appears that in the eleventh century it was still the centre of northern 

48 Letters of Solomon b. Judah see: 130 , lines 7-11; 159 , lines 20-21; from this letter as well it 
appears that the Gaon used to stay in Ramla for a long time. The letter of Abraham b. 
Samuel: 228 ; it is possible that the ruined house he mentions was the result of the 
earthquake in 1033; see Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 155; 552, n. 31 - he emphasises 
that one cannot learn from this letter that the ritual bath (miqwe) was actually attached to 
the building of the synagogue, and points out that in Egypt there is no hint of a miqu/e 
before 1200; but see document No. 11 (TS Ar, Box 44, f. 223), a, line 19, from the year 
1139, in Gil, Documents, in which the midah, mikwe, is referred to. The synagogue in the 
middle: 306 , lines 25-26. Ramla near Lod: apart from the documents in my collection, see: 
TS AS 151.47, a very faded fragment of a deed, dated ‘the first year of the week (i.e. of the 
sabbatical cycle of seven years) in the year four thousand and seven hundred and seventy 
and five years of the creation of the world (1014/5). .. in Ramla the city near Lod’. One can 
discern the signature of Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph (?). The letter of Nathan b. 
Abraham: 183 , lines 15ff. See Dropsie 364 II, a fragment of a marriage deed from Ramla 
printed in: Friedman, Marriage, II, 359; Abraham b. Sedaqa (his name is found in 425 , line 
19; 1065), marries the daughter of Pinhas b. Levi (the name of the bride has not been 
preserved) in the sixth year of the sabbatical cycle and this can be 1062 or 1069. TS 12.480 
(Friedman, ibid., 362), also a fragment of a marriage deed; the name of the groom: 
Menahem ha-Kohen b. Isaiah; here too Abraham b. Sedaqa signed, and others: Mevorakh 


174 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275-334] 


Palestine and the northern coastal cities of Acre and Tyre (and evidently 
also Sidon, and Tripoli - Itrabulus) were subordinate to it. With regard to 
its Jewish population, we know that Tiberias was the major Jewish city 
and site of the Sanhedrin. The yeshiva of Palestine, which was the direct 
outgrowth of the Sanhedrin, still remained in Tiberias after the Muslim 
conquest for many generations. Despite many political and military vicis¬ 
situdes, it seems that Tiberias remained ajewish city to a large extent, even 
as late as the eleventh century AD, when we fmd some references to the 
city in the Geniza documents. Bishop Willibald, who visited Tiberias in 
723, found ‘many churches and ajewish synagogue’ there. Michael the 
Syrian, on the other hand, speaks of thirty synagogues which were de¬ 
stroyed in the earthquake in Tiberias (in 748). Some eighty years later, in 
about 810, we find details in a Christian source: the city is the seat of the 
bishop (Theodoros at the time), and has a monastery for virgins as well as 
five churches. As to the Muslims, we have seen above that Tiberias 
became a centre for the Urdunn tribes and that Ya'qub! mentioned par¬ 
ticularly the Banu Ash‘ar. Muqaddas! mentions favourably its jamV, the 
principal mosque, which unlike mosques in other cities has its courtyard 
covered in gravel. Nasir Khusraw (1047) mentions another mosque in the 
western part of Tiberias, the ‘Jasmin mosque’, because of the jasmin 
growing there. Brief evidence in Mas‘udl mentions the fact that the 
descendants of converts to Islam, mawali of the Umayyads from the 
days of the caliph ‘Uthman, lived in Tiberias. When he visited Tiberias in 
AH 324, or AD 936, he saw a book they kept, containing the annals of the 
Umayyads as well as their fadd’il (praises). One can surmise that these 
mawalT were descendants of Christians. 49 

[285] As to thejews of Tiberias, there seem to have been two communi¬ 
ties, one of Jerusalemites and the other of Babylonians, and this can be 
deduced from the flowery language of entreaty in one of the letters in the 
Geniza: ‘to the holy communities who sit in Hammath and Rakkath’ (the 

ha-Kohen b. Joseph; ‘Eli ha-Levi b. Aaron; Azhar ha-Levi (b.) Shabbat; Mansur ha-Levi b. 
Solomon; Khalaf b. Mansur; Moses b. 'Amram. 

49 Willibald, see: Tobler, Descriptiones\ the translation in Sefer ha-yishuv, II, 10, is not correct; 
and see De Casis Dei, in Tobler et Molinier, I, 304; the jami': MuqaddasI, Aqalbn, 161, 182. 
MuqaddasI mentions there the unbearable heat in the city; they say of the people of 
Tiberias, he writes, that ‘for two months they dance, for two months they nibble, for two 
months they bang, for two months they go about naked, for two months they blow on 
canes, for two months they sink; that is, they dance because of the fleas, nibble on the fruit 
of the jujube, they bang on pans to chase away the wasps from the meat and the fruit, they 
go naked because of the burning heat, suck on sugar cane, and sink in mud’. Michael the 
Syrian, see above, sec. 103, n. 15. See further fragments from Muslim writers describing 
Tiberias: Le Strange, Palestine, 341 ff; Nasir Khusraw, 17 (text), 56 (translation). Mez, 324, 
finds in these jasmin bushes remnants of the worship of Baal, which seems an exagger¬ 
ation. The fact that Tiberias was a centre of non-Muslim population is reflected in a hadlth 
according to which it is one of the four cities of hell ( mada’itt al-nar) together with 


175 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


latter according to Joshua, xix:35, undoubtedly a by-name for Tiberias), 
and also from the language of a letter from Nathan ha-Kohen he-haver b. 
Isaiah, of Tiberias: (receive.. .) ‘much peace .. . from the two parties 
living in Tiberias’. However we also find the singular: ‘To the great holy 
community in Tiberias’ (using the ancient form, Tiberia, Tiberia, which 
was common at that time), in a responsum of a gaon which was sent to 
Tiberias, perhaps the Palestinian Gaon addressed ‘his’ community, that is 
the Jerusalemites, in the singular. A relatively ancient document (probably 
from the end of the tenth century AD) being a deed of attorney concerning 
property in Tiberias, from the son of a deceased to the father’s partner, 
Moses b. Samuel b. Sahl — contains among the signatures of the witnesses a 
number of uncommon names which are of typical Palestinian heritage, 
such as: Hashmanai, Pashshat, Makhlr. Some deeds deal with transactions 
in estates in Tiberias. A very old and important document is the copy of a 
deed drawn up in Tiberias in the year AH 328 (AD 939/40). According to 
the fragment which has been preserved, one can see that the copy was 
made from a deed of the sale of estates and fields, etc., drawn up in the 
presence of a cadi. The copy was requested by R. Elhanan, apparently 
Elhanan b. Shemaria, and if this is the case, it should be dated about 1020. 
The seller is Hillel b. Nissim and the purchaser is Benjamin. In the original 
deed (written in Arabic script) there were the signatures of six Muslim 
witnesses. The copy was brought to Fustat by ‘Joshua ha-Kohen ha-mumhe 
(specialist in law) b. Ya’ir he-haver’, and from this we learn that the judge, 
the local haver, in Tiberias in around the year 1000, was called Ya’ir 
ha-Kohen. Another signature was that of Abraham b. Salman, the scribe, 
evidently. In 1023 Musafir b. Yish‘I b. Isra’Il bought a shop in the 
western row of the Jewish market ( al-sajf al-gharbi min suq al-yahuct) in 
Tiberias for the orphan ( al-tiji al-yahiidi) Musa b. Hiba (Moses b. Nathan) 
b. Salmun. In another document, a deathbed will of Khalaf b. Yeshu‘a of 
30 August 1034, it appears that the testator was the owner of a large 
compound ( haser ) in Tiberias, in the market called suwayqat (little market 
of) al-. . .da (perhaps al-rawda, the garden). 50 

[286] Tiberias was also a centre ofjewish spiritual life during the period 

Constantinople, Antioch and San'a. see SuyutI, La’ali, I, 459; ‘Ajlunl, [, 450; on the mawali 
see Mas'udI, Tanblh, 336. 

50 Hammath and Rakkath are vocalised with upper punctuation, see; ENA 223, f. 1, lines 
18-19, printed by Mann, Jest's, II, 60f. The letter of Nathan ha-Kohen, 263, lines 6-7. The 
responsum: Mosseri VIII421 (R19), printed by Assaf, Mi-sijrut ha-ge’ottim, 92ff; the query, 
dated approximately 1000, whose main content is brought at the end of the responsum, 
dealt with matters of the inheritance of Nu’man ha-melammed (the teacher) b. Abu Nasr; 
mentioned are Maymun b. Hasan, who was the uncle of the deceased, the brother of his 
father Abu Nasr; Hassan b. Manasseh, a relative of the deceased on his mother’s side (son 
of her sister) and another man named Yahya, who brought with him a letter, apparently 
from the head of the community, the local haver; the Gaon recognises the father’s side of 


176 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275-334] 


under discussion. Mas‘udl mentions that he personally knew Abu Kathlr 
Yahya b. Zakariyya’, ‘the Tiberian scribe’ ( al-katib al-tabarani); scribe in 
the sense of a book copyist. According to him, the latter was one of the 
Jews who translated the Bible into Arabic, and Sa‘Td b. Ya’qub al-Fayyuml 
(should be b. Yusuf that is, Saadia Gaon) learned from him. Hence we find 
that Saadia Gaon stayed in Tiberias on his way from Egypt to Babylonia, 
and possibly that his stay there lasted ten years (evidently from ca. 910). 
Yahya b. Zakariyya’ died according to Mas‘udl in the twenties of the 
fourth century of the hijra, that is, after 932. Pinsker, and after him 
Steinschneider, tried to identify Y ahya ibn Zakariyya’, the sage of Tiberias 
mentioned by Mas'udI, with Judah b. ‘Allan of Tiberias mentioned by 
Judah HadasI in Eshkol ha-kofer: ‘We also found in Judah b. ‘Allan of 
Tiberias, my learned man’, and so on, and elsewhere he mentions: ‘the 
grammarian of Tiberias, in his book Me’or ‘eynayim’ (‘light of the eyes’). 
On the basis of his use of the phrase ‘my learned man’, which is one of the 
favourite expressions ofjudah HadasI, one can see that he considered him a 
Karaite, though this is not proven in any way. Levi b. Yefet ha-Levi 
mentioned ‘the pitron [commentary] of our Lord and Master Judah b. 
‘Allan the Tiberian, head of the Jerusalem yeshiva, may God have mercy 
on him’. Pinsker points out in his Liqqute qadm. that he found in an ancient 
Karaite prayer-book (written in around 1300), a dirge byjudah b. ‘Allan. 
Undoubtedly similar, though not identical, are the words of David 
QimhI, who mentions the quire of ‘All b. Judah [that is, not Judah b. 
‘AlI-‘Allan] the ascetic ( ha-ndztr ), in which he says the people of Maaziah, 
which is Tiberias, pronounced the r and the double r differently from one 
another. One can see that we are dealing here with very obscure sources 
and it is difficult to decide either way. We have no information about a 

the family’s right to inherit and negates the mother’s side. Assaf read the names of the 
people involved a little differently; on p. 93, line 24, one should read: ke-dahwan (like a 
table, cf. Abramson, Ba-merkazim, 162). The form Tiberia can be found on deeds, see, for 
example, the marriage deed of Na’ima daughter of Moses the cantor b. Husayn al-Dulukl, 
of Thursday, 12Nisan AM 4795, 22 May AD 1035, wedding Isaac b. Abraham: ‘in the city 
of Tiberia Colonia’ (written qlwny ), 246, line 3. Of the existence of Babylonians in 
Tiberias one can perhaps learn from a deed of attorney written in Mali] in Egypt in 1047, 
concerning a deposit belonging to the Tiberian woman Rayyisa, daughter of Mansur, and 
bearing the signature of the central figure of the Babylonian community in Fustat, Sahlan 
b. Abraham; see TS 24.73, printed by Assaf, Yerushalayim, 1952/3,115f: Rayyisa gives her 
brother, Asad b. Mansur, a power-of-attorney to go to Fustat and there receive her dowry 
which was deposited by her unde, Joseph b. Asad al-Tabaranl, with Hesed al-Tustari. Cf. 
Gil, ha-Tustarhn, 35. The deed of attorney: 12, probably written in Fustat, see Friedman, 
Ribbiiy ndshhn, 195f. The fragment of the copy of the deed: 244. The shop in the Jewish 
market: 245. MuqaddasI, Aqalim, 161, notes that the market in Tiberias covered the area 
between two streets (wa-siiquhd min al-darb ila’I-darb). If we combine the two shreds of 
information, we can imagine that the market (perhaps the ‘Jewish market’) continued 
parallel to the Sea of Galilee between two parallel streets, and the shop which Musafir 
purchased was on the side of the street farther from the sea. The testament of Khalaf: 253. 


177 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


head of the Jerusalem yeshiva by this name, nor have we information 
about a Karaite community in Tiberias. Allony returns to the subject again 
and proves that the Me’dr ‘eynayim of the ‘Tiberian grammarian’ cannot be 
the same as the Or ‘eynayim mentioned by Abraham ibn Ezra in the 
introduction to his commentary on the Pentateuch. Allony , like his 
predecessors, did not stress the fact that actually no ancient source referred 
to either of the two books as being the work ofjudah b. ‘Allan. He quoted 
additional sources in which the names Judah ha-nazir b. ‘All and Judah b. 
‘Allan are mentioned. Also, he printed a page from a treatise on the 
foundations of Hebrew, found in the Geniza, which he ascribed to ‘All b. 
Judah ha-nazir, 51 and appended a detailed study on the linguistic issues 
included there. At any rate, it seems that that treatise was written by a man 
of Tiberias, for a passage refers to his sitting in the squares of Tiberias and 
listening to the speech of its inhabitants. As to the identity of Mas‘udl’s 
Yahya ibn Zakariyya’, however, we are still in the dark. It should be added 
that Mas‘udi’s remarks were made in the context of a short survey on 
translations of the Bible, in which he praised the translation by Hunayn 
ibn Ishaq. 52 

[287] Among the group of ancient Palestinian poets: Yose b. Yose, 
Yannai, Eleazar ha-Kallir, YehoshiVa, and Pinhas, the latter (from Kifra 
near Tiberias) was a man of Tiberias living in the Muslim period, in the 
eighth century. This we learn from his acrostic, and from the poem he 
wrote about the fast of the earthquake of the sabbatical year, meaning, as 
we have seen above, the earthquake of the year 748. His full name was 
Pinhas ha-Kohen b. Jacob, and he is not to be confused with Pinhas, head 

51 TS Arabic Box 32, f. 17. 

52 Mas'udI, Tanbih, 112f. He defines Yahya ibn Zakariyya’ and Sa‘id (Saadia) - as Ash- 
mu 'athh , of course meaning: Rabbanites (the expression is also used in other Arab sources). 
The origin of the expression is evidently Babylonian-Aramaic, ashma'ta- ‘on a tradition’, 
that is, in the sense of oral law. See: Vajda, BIRHT, 15(1969), 144. AbuKathlral-Tabaram 
is mentioned (apparently following Mas‘udi) also in Ibn Hazm, Milal, III, 171, who places 
him among the Jewish mutakaUimutv, cf. Friedlander, JQR, NS 1(1910/1), 187; seeHadasi, 
Eshkol, 98c (No. 257); 69b (No. 173). He mentions the book Me’irat ‘eynayim also on fol. 
63b.; Levi b. Yefet, in Pinsker, Liqqute qadmdniydt, II, 64; the prayer-book, ibid., 139. The 
idea of the identity with Abu Kathlr Yahya ibn Zakariyya’, ibid., I, 5. And see David 
Qimhi, Sefer Mikhlol (Lyck 5602/1842), 81b; on the matter of ‘Ali b. Judah ha-nazir see: 
Dukes, Quntres, If, n. 1; Geiger, Qevusat ma’amanm, 232f, suggested identifying him with 
Judah b. ‘Allan, and assumed that the book ascribed to him, Me’dr ‘eynayim, is identical 
with Or ‘eynayim mentioned by Abraham ibn Ezra. See the editor’s note (Poznanski) ibid., 
233 (n. 2), who denies this and points out that the book Or 'eynayim was written by Meir of 
Kastoria, a pupil of Tobias b. Eleazar (author of Leqah tov), and that the whole matter of 
the book Me’dr ‘eynayim is a sort of puzzle, if it actually existed, and if it did, whether its 
author was a Karaite as Judah Hadasi claims. See Steinschneider, JQR, 13(1900/1), 315. 
Harkavy, Zikkaron, V, 115, denies that Judah b. ‘Allan was a Karaite. See Allony, 
Leshonenu, 34(1969/70), 175f, and see also Alder, Alei Sefer, 12(1986), 59ff, who denies the 
assumption of Allony concerning the Geniza fragment which he edited. 


I 7 8 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES (SECS. 275-334] 

of the yeshiva mentioned in Seder 'olam zutd, for the latter was not a 
kohen. 53 

[288] Tiberias was also the centre of the masoretes and vocalisers and it 
was here that the masorah and vocalisation were finally formulated. There 
is a list of ancient masoretes and vocalisers whose centre was Tiberias, 
which is to be found in the manuscripts of the diqduqe ha-te'dmim by Aaron 
b. Moses b. Asher - manuscripts that were kept by the Karaites in Crimea 
(Tshufutkaleh) and whose parallels were found in the Geniza. On the basis 
of these sources, Mann reconstructed the following list of masoretes from 
Tiberias: (1) Riqat and Semah b. Abl Shayba, who lived at the end of the 
eighth century; (2) Abraham b. Riqat, Abraham b. Furlt, Pinhas the head 
of the yeshiva, and Ahiyahu ha-Kohen (‘the haver from the city of Ma- 
aziah’ that is, Tiberias, who is perhaps the same as Abu’l-‘Umaytar in a 
parallel version); Havlv b. Pipim (the Greek name Pippinos); Asher b. 
Nehemiah; Moses Muha; Moses of Gaza; Semah ibn al-Siyara (who is 
Semah Abu Slutum), who lived in approximately the first quarter of the 
ninth century; (3) Nehemiah b. Asher ( ca. 825-850); (4) Asher b. Nehe¬ 
miah ca. 850-875); (5) Moses b. Asher (ca. 875-900); (6) Aaron b. Moses 
(ca. 900-925). 54 

[289-290] Another source of names of masoretes is the dedicatory 
colophon in the famous keter aram-sova (the Bible codex of Aleppo). This 
colophon was first copied by Jacob Zeev for Jacob Saphir, who printed 
this copy in his book Even Saphir. It is noted there that this book of the 
Bible is dedicated to the congregation of the Rabbanites in Jerusalem; and 
further that it was ransomed from the spoils ofjerusalem (that is, from the 
Crusaders) and given to the synagogue ‘of the Jerusalemites’ in Fustat. 
Another note mentions that the copyist was Solomon b. Buya‘a, and that 

53 See: Saadia Gaon in the introduction to the Agron, ed. Allony, text, 154, translation, 69f: 
al-shu'ara’ al-awwalm (the ancient poets): Yoseb. Yose, Yannai, Eleazar, Yehoshu'a, and 
Pinhas; and see the editor’s introduction, 79, and n. 315; Qirqisam, 609, mentions three of 
them, Yannai, Eleazar, and Pinhas. See also: Zulay, Yerushalayim , 1952/3, 51; cf. 
Fleischer, Sinai, 61(1966/7), 31 ff, who finds support for the opinion of the relatively late 
date of Pinhas (the Muslim period) in the expressions: ‘Qedar and Edom’; ‘Ishmaelites and 
Edomites’; idem , Sefer Teverya, 368ff. 

54 See Mann, Jews, II, 43ff, and there details also on earlier studies. See: Bodl MS Heb, Cat. 
2862, e 74, f. 59, in Mann ibid, on p. 43; it is to be noted that the MS. has Abraham Riqat 
(and not b. Riqat) and further: ‘and Riqat his father before him’ (in Mann’s version the 
words ‘his father’ are omitted). BM Or 5554A, f. 29v. Here one has to correct the reading 
of Mann, ibid., 44, line 4 - w’hyyhw, read: w’hyhw, line 12 - 'khtyjw, read: ’khtlfw (and n. 1 
in Mann, ibid., is superfluous); line 13 - wthlthyn , read wthlthh ; lines 15-16 — the word 
alladhi at the beginning should be deleted and the meaning will be: ‘as to this rule which I 
am discussing, what I say about them is that they read’, etc.; also there is no need to read 
qur'an instead of qanun as suggested by Mann. As to Abu’l-‘Umytar, see Ibn al-Athir, 
Kamil, VI, 249; this was the by-name of the ‘Sufyam’ ‘All b. ‘Abdallah, leader of the revolt 
in 811 in Damascus; it may have been written in the original text that this Ahiyahu 
ha-Kohen lived at the time of the revolt. 


179 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


its vocaliser and masorete was Aaron b. Asher, and that the book was 
dedicated to Jerusalem by a man of Basra, Israel b. Simha b. Saadia b. 
Ephraim, and deposited with the (Karaite) Ken'fmjosiah and Hezekiah, the 
sons of David b. Boaz (here there was an error in copying and Jacob Saphir 
noticed it). It was to be taken out for the meetings (majalis of the Karaites, 
their houses of prayer, which Jacob Saphir did not understand, and this 
shall be discussed below) and the Karaite communities on Passover, 
Shavuoth and Succoth in Jerusalem, and the Rabbanites should also be 
permitted to read it. Jacob Saphir mentions that he was assisted by Abra¬ 
ham Firkovitch, who examined the colophons for him when he visited 
Aleppo, but in general he did not accept his corrections, for he wrote ‘b. 
Yeruham’ instead of ‘b. Buya‘a’. Saphir believed that this was done 
because he wanted to get closer to Salmon b. Yeruhim, the Karaite writer. 
Harkavy, who visited Aleppo in 1886, examined the colophon, reprinted 
it, and arrived at the conclusion that what was said there about Aaron b. 
Asher was a forgery and a later addition of the Karaites. Kahle mentions 
another dedicatory colophon in the same Bible: ‘qodesh before God; for 
Israel, the Rabbanites who dwell in the Holy City. Not to be sold nor 
redeemed for ever and eternity’. This colophon had also been copied by 
Joseph Saphir (although Kahle brings it from another source). In Kahle’s 
opinion, the inscription indicates that this Bible was firstly in the hands of 
the Rabbanites in Jerusalem and only afterwards, somewhat before the 
middle of the eleventh century, did they sell it to Israel b. Simha of Basra, 
who dedicated it to the Karaites. The permission given to the Rabbanites 
to examine it was apparently one of the conditions on which it was sold. A 
leaf with a copy of the colophon from Aleppo was found by Gottheil in a 
manuscript of the Bible in the Karaite synagogue in Jerusalem. He recog¬ 
nised that this was a copy in modern script, but he could not make out 
what that copy was. Undoubtedly what Gottheil found was a page of the 
copy which Firko witch prepared for Jacob Saphir, in which b. Yeruham is 
written instead of b. Buya'a (as noted by Jacob Saphir), that is, it is the 
correction made by Firkowitch. Gottheil believed that that Bible had been 
dedicated to the Karaite synagogue in Fustat, when in fact it was first 
dedicated, as we have seen, to the Karaites injerusalem, and from there, 
after it was in the hands of the Crusaders, it reached the synagogue ‘of the 
Jerusalemites’ (Rabbanites) in Fustat. 55 As to Solomon ha-Levi b. Buya'a, 

55 See Even Saphir, I, 12aff (read iftikak instead of ifiikaq); kanlsat Yerushalayim is the syn¬ 
agogue ‘of the Palestinians’ in Fustat (to be discussed below), the synagogue in which the 
Geniza was kept; see especially notes 2 on fol. 12b and 5, on fol. 13a. See Harkavy, 
Hadashim (reprint) 104ff; Kahle, Masoreten des Western, 1, 9. What Baron writes ( SRHJ , VI, 
447, n. 16) that the Rabbanites (in Jerusalem) on no account called themselves Israel 
ha-rahbamm except when they wished to make a distinction between the Karaites and 
themselves, is erroneous; as can be proven from many Geniza documents, they commonly 

180 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275-334] 

he is also mentioned in other manuscripts of the Bible which were in the 
hands of the Karaites in T shufutkaleh. He was a pupil of Sa‘Id b. Farjaway, 
nicknamed Balquq (= Abu’l-Quq), and evidently both were Tiberians 
and lived at the end of the ninth century and the beginning of the tenth. 
Ephraim b. Buya‘a is also mentioned, and was apparently the brother of 
Solomon. 56 

[291] As we know, the Palestinian Tiberias school differed from that of 
the Babylonians, both in their versions of the Bible and in their pro¬ 
nunciation, and evidence of this can be found in the account of QirqisanT, 
who cites examples of these differences. The Karaites saw in this a proof of 
weakness on the part of the Rabbanites, as the latter were also divided 
amongst themselves concerning vocalisation, which they did not view as 
having been ancient but rather as something decided by the scribes, whereas 
the Karaites believed that the Bible had been vocalised from the outset. 57 

[292-293] Nevertheless, we find an anonymous Karaite writer, evi¬ 
dently a Palestinian, speaking in praise of the learned men of Tiberias who 
had determined the correct manner of reading, which is the Palestinian 
(‘the reading of al-Sham’). He writes this in a commentary to Genesis, 
xlix:21 (Naphtali is a hind let loose: he giveth goodly words), and he 
mentions Ben Asher and Ben Naphtali, who formulated this manner of 
reading, and notes that this is the good Tiberian trait. It is not clear 
whether he wished to imply that the creators of this correct reading were 
Karaites. If he thought so, it is likely that he would have said so. 58 The 
good accent of Tiberias is mentioned in a number of places in the Middle 
Ages. Jonah ibn Janah’s S. ha-riqmd, for example, states that the people of 
Tiberias are the most distinct (afsah) in their Hebrew, while the account 
attributed to Dunash b. Tamlm, who quoted Isaac b. Solomon, who is 
Isaac Isra’ill, also speaks of the Tiberias accent: . . for there is in the 
language of the Hebrews of Tiberias the ta’ (should be: the zd’) and the sad 


referred to themselves as Rabbanites, and it suffices to see, for instance, what is written in 
420, b, line 30: ‘we, the congregation of Rabbanites’. See: Gottheil, JQ/?, 17(1904/5), 650f. 
Gottheil was indeed led astray by Firkovitch’s correction, and on p. 651 he notes that the 
manuscript was written by Salmon b. Yeruhim! He also did not understand what syn¬ 
agogue in Fustat was being referred to (see ibid., 651, and n. 3). See also: Ben-Zvi, Sinai, 
43(1957/8), Ilf, and there a new copy of the dedicatory inscriptions and also comments on 
Firkovitch’s forgery (he does not mention Gottheil); the same in English: Ben-Zvi, 
Textus, 6(1960), 12ff. 

56 On Sa'Td b. Farjaway and his pupil Solomon b. Biiya'a and his brother Ephraim, see: 
Allony, Textus, 6:106, 1968, who discusses theGeniza fragment TS Arabic Box 35, f. 394, 
in which the name (fragmented) of Sa'Id b. Farjaway is found; see also in Allony, ibid, all 
the references to the sources. 

57 QirqisanT, I, 31, 135ff. Cf. Klar, Mehqanm, 294f, 320ff; see HadasT, Eshkol, 60b (written in 
1148). 

58 See MS Firkovitch, II, No. 4633, in Mann, Texts, II, 104f, and see ibid, the discussion on 
p. 69. See the scroll of Abiathar: 559, c, lines 2—3. 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


(should be: dad) .. . and he would read ajiano (instead of: afdano. Dan., 
xi:45)...’ 59 ' 

[294] At this point, one must bring up the question discussed at length in 
research concerning the Ben Asher family, which is whether they belong 
to the Rabbanites or to the Karaites. The view that they were Karaites is 
based on the fact that the Karaites possessed most of the manuscripts of the 
Bible which have been preserved until the present day; manuscripts which 
have colophons whose masorah and vocalisation are attributed to Moses 
b. Asher and his son Aaron. There are instances in which Aaron is called 
‘Aaron ha-melammed’ (the teacher), particularly in the colophon in the 
Book of Prophets in Leningrad, in which ‘the teacher Aaron b. Moses b. 
Meir b. Asher’ is mentioned. Some saw in the by-name ‘the teacher’ 
something characteristic of the Karaites, as is the case in the use of the 
adjective maskil. Another proof of his being a Karaite was seen in the 
heading on the title page of Saadia Gaon’s Essa Meshali: al-radd ‘ala ben 
Ashar ‘ibrani (‘the response to Ben Asher, in Hebrew’); as Essa Meshali was 
written against the Karaites, it was assumed that Ben Asher was a Karaite. 
Further evidence of this can be seen in the poem of Moses ben Asher on 
‘Israel who are likened to a vine’. The most outstanding of the scholars 
who claimed that the Ben Asher family were Karaites were Graetz and 
Klar. More recently, A. Dotan concluded the discussion with evidence of 
Ben Asher belonging to the Rabbanites and that Saadia Gaon’s opponent 
was not Aaron b. Asher but Abu’l-Tayyib Samuel b. Asher al-Jaball, one 
of the leaders of the Karaites in Saadia Gaon’s generation. 

Another important fact is that we know nothing of the existence of a 
Karaite com munity in Tiberias at any time. The immigration of Karaites 
that evidently began in the second half of the ninth century was directed 
towards Jerusalem, as we shall see below. Also, it does not seem reason¬ 
able to assume that at a time when they were just beginning to arrive in 
Palestine, one would find an old and established school of Karaite learned 
linguists, grammarians and Masoretes in Tiberias. 60 


59 Jonah ibnjanah, Sefer ha-riqma (Derenbourg ed.), 29; cf. ed. Wilensky-Tenne, I, 39; see 
Dukes, Quntres, 73; in the list of books TS 10 K 20. f. 9, fol. lb, lines 11-20, the kitabal-%a’ 
wa’l-dad is mentioned; see: Mann, REJ, 72(1921), 170; Vajda, REJ, 107(1946/7), 109f; and 
see also Pitron Torn, 343: ‘Tiberias uses a dear language in the Torah more than anyone in 
the world, since they have a graceful speech, as blessed byjacob their father’, etc. See notes 
91-93 of the editor and his introduction, p. 20. As to ajtdno, this is difficult to understand; 
he might have understood it as being similar to the word fada’, courtyard, empty space, 
and would read afzan (because they did not differentiate between d and a:). It is worth 
noting that the documents in my collection, 243-284 (Tiberias, Tyre, Tripoli), are almost 
all written in Hebrew. 

60 See: Kahle, Cairo Geniza, 110, n. 2. An important colophon was copied byjacob Saphir: ‘I 
Moses b. Asher wrote this ntahzor of the Bible according to the good hand of God on me, 
well explained, in the city of Maaziah, which is Tiberias, the renowned city . .. written at 


182 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275-334] 

[295] To this question of the Masoretes, one should add the subject of 
‘the book of Jericho’, recalled by the Masoretes and which I have seen 
mentioned in some places as belonging to the Muslim era. It appears that 
the Masoretes knew this manuscript of the Bible which was brought from 
Jericho, but this cannot serve as evidence concerning its date, which 
cannot be known precisely, especially as we have no information on the 
Jewish population in Jericho during the period we are dealing with (apart 
from the Muslim tradition according to which some of the exiled Jews of 
Medina went to Palestine, namely to Jericho). 61 

[296] A sad affair revealed to us by the Geniza documents is that of the 
Jewish lepers living in Tiberias. There are seventeen documents dealing 
directly with this subject, apart from others which mention these lepers 
incidentally. Six out of the seventeen documents are in the hand-writing of 
the haver Hillel b. Yeshu'a the cantor al-Jubari, who was the judge and 
leader of the Jews of Tiberias in the thirties and forties of the eleventh 
century. 

We find at first a letter of recommendation for the lepers’ emissaries 
written by Hillel b. Yeshu'a, leaving empty spaces for the names of the 
emissaries, which were still unknown to him. One can deduce from this 
that there may have been prepared forms for this purpose in the com¬ 
munity of Tiberias, and that they would frequently send emissaries to 
obtain help for these ill-fated beings. From the ' alama: yesha' yuhash, one 
can deduce that the date of the letter is 1025, when Solomon ha-Kohen b. 
Joseph, whose ‘alama it was, was head of the yeshiva. The lepers call 
themselves ‘the tormented’ ( ha-meyussarlm) and add rhyming descriptions 
about their condition, such as: ‘from boils there’s no release, with eczema 
they decrease . . . some are deaf, some are blind, some lack a limb, and 
some are lame . ..’ and the like. An unsigned letter (apart from the phrase 
‘your tormented brethren in the city of Tiberias’) addressed to Samuel b. 
Ezra contains not only a description of the writer’s personal distress caused 
by the illness but also details of the general suffering, particularly the 
gnawing pain of hunger: ‘from great expense and terrible hunger and a 
pittance to live on’. These were more painful than the disease itself. In 

the end of eight hundred and twenty seven years after the destruction of the second temple’ 
(895) - this gives us clear evidence of the time of Moses b. Aaron. See Even Saphir, 14b, a 
version copied after him in many places. Read and printed anew by Gottheil, JQR, 
17(1904/5), 639; Essa meshali was edited by Lewin, Saadia Memorial Volume, 481 (MS 
Westminster College, Liturgica, vol. 3, fol. 40). The correct reading of the Arabic title was 
suggested by Klar, Mehqartm, 276ff; ‘the poem of the grapevine’, ibid. 310f; see the 
discussion there in the continuation. See: Dotan, Ben Asher, who has full details on the 
history of the argument and references; see his previous publications: Sinai, 41(1956/7): 
280, 350; see also Zucker, Tarbiz, 28(1957/8): 61. 

61 See: Ginsburg, Introduction, 433, 718; idem, Massorah, III, 135; Margoliouth, Catalogue, no. 
179 (= Or 2696). See about the emigration of the Jews from Medina to Jericho: M. J. and 


183 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


another letter, it is said that among the diseased there were ‘heads of cities’ 
(that is, people who had been community leaders in their home-towns) as 
well as ‘family heads’. A building had been placed at their disposal in 
Tiberias, but it was demolished, evidently as a result of the Bedouin wars 
fought in that area in 1028-1029. The wars also led to the discontinuance of 
letters and the help they had formerly received from Egypt. With the 
victory of the Fatimids over the Bedouin, tranquillity was restored and 
requests for aid were renewed. It seems that it was customary to announce 
the arrival of an emissary in the synagogues so that the public could come 
to their aid. From some letters, it appears that two emissaries were 
sometimes sent, one a leper and the other a healthy person. Money would 
be deposited with the ‘merchants’ representative’ in Tiberias, Saadia ha- 
Levi b. Moses, and he would distribute it to the sick. 

Indirectly we learn from these letters that in Tiberias there were two 
haverim, people of the Palestinian yeshiva, who undoubtedly acted there as 
judges and community leaders, for apart from Hillel b. Yeshu'a, Nathan 
ha-Kohen he-haver b. Isaiah is also mentioned. Interesting information as 
to the manner in which the money was transferred is found in the letter of 
Samuel he-haver b. Moses, of Tyre, to the leader of the community in 
Fustat, ‘Eli b. ‘Amram, written in about 1050. He confirms having re¬ 
ceived a diyoqne from Fustat for 14 dinars less 2 qirats, which Solomon b. 
Saadia b. Saghlr brought with him from Egypt to Tyre. The diyoqne had to 
be collected from Samuel ha-Levi b. Shemaria b. Ra‘bub. This was done 
and the money given to a merchant travelling ‘to TIberya’, to be distribu¬ 
ted to ‘our tormented brethren’, ‘in the presence of the haverim and 
elders’; that is to say that the distribution was carried out publicly and in 
the presence of the community leaders. From the text of the letter, it also 
appears that the money was collected in Fustat by means of a special 
campaign (‘may the Almighty double the reward of the haver, [that is ‘Eli 
b. ‘Amram] ... also of everyone who gave something’). Hence, the 
money would first reach Tyre from Egypt by sea, and then be sent to 
Tiberias (as Tyre was part of jund Urdunn, of which Tiberias was the 
capital), 62 

M. Kister, Tarbiz, 48(1978/9), 235, and their suggestion that in fact thesejews returned to 
Jericho, because that is where they came from originally. 

62 See letters relating to the lepers: 252ff, and also the supplementary: 262a, 265a, 266 
(revised). Al-Jubarl, see the signature of Hillel b. Yeshu'a on 254 and the note there. Letter 
of recommendation: 252, and see the ‘alama (the concluding formula) on p. b; 254, 255, in 
which there is mention of the death of one of the envoys of the lepers, a man of Aleppo 
(Sova) whose name was Khalaf ( ha-melammed , the teacher) ha-Sovi b. Yeshu'a, who was 
himself ill of leprosy (from which we learn that people with this disease were not 
prevented from travelling and being in contact with the public; see on the subject oflepers 
in Islam: Lazarus-Yafeh, Tarbiz , 51[1981/2], 215); the death-bed will of this Khalaf has 
been preserved, and it appears from this will that he was a man of means who dealt in 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275-334] 


[297] The lepers’ purpose in coming to Tiberias was to ‘get healed by the 
water and the air’. As early as the late sixth century, Antoninus of Piacenza 
(Placentinus) tells us of the springs of Hammat-Gader, called ‘the baths of 
Elijah (the prophet)’ which cured the lepers. There was also an inn there 
(xenodochium) supported by public funds. In the evening, the baths were 
filled; towards the front of the pool there was a basin which was filled, and 
then the doors were locked. The sick entered through a small door 
carrying lamps and incense and sat there the entire night, falling asleep. A 
sign of healing was a certain dream which the sick person would describe. 
Afterwards he would not come to the bathhouse any longer and in the 
course of seven days (so one should understand) he would be healed. This 
tradition has evidently been preserved for generations and the place to 
which the lepers of Tiberias went to be healed in the springs was indeed 
Hammat-Gader. Actually, the text of one of the letters confirms this: 
‘Your tormented brothers, who live outside Rakkath’. That is - in plain 
terms - the lepers lived outside of Tiberias. Around 1045, Samuel he- 
haver b. Moses of Tyre wrote to Ephraim b. Shemaria in Fustat, asking 
him to clarify the matter of certain money deposits in Egypt, among them 
those of‘Moses b. Semah, known as al-Azraq (‘the blue-eyed’) the magi¬ 
cian, who died some years ago’, which concern Na‘ima b. Moses al- 
Duluki (from Duluk in northern Syria), ‘who sold wares in front of the 
Jadariyya baths’. Jadariyya is undoubtedly Hammat-Gader. However, 
one can also assume that these lepers would go to get healed in the springs 
of Tiberias proper. Muqaddasi mentions that there were eight unheated 
baths in the city as well as ritual pools ( miyad) of hot water. The baths 
received their water through canals from the hot springs. He also describes 
the springs of Hammat-Gader ( al-Hamma ) which apparently could heal 
various diseases within three days. 63 

textiles and perfumes, and even bought himself a haser, that is a compound, in Tiberias 
(evidently after coming therefrom Aleppo because of his illness). See 253. The name of the 
healthy envoy was Obadiah, see 262, line9. Samuelb. Ezra, who is addressed in this letter, 
262, is evidently Samuel b. ‘Ezrun the Jerusalemite, and from this we learn that appeals for 
help were also made to Jerusalem. ‘Heads of cities’: 265. That there were women among 
the lepers one can learn from 266: ‘and we fell, limb by limb, men and women’. Letter of 
Samuel the haver b. Moses: 283. Mann, Jews, I, 168, assumed that this Samuel b. Shemaria 
b. Ra‘bub was a man of Tiberias, but actually he was from Tyre. The letter from Solomon 
b. Judah, 72, written in about 1026, includes an appeal to help ‘the tormented .. . the exiles 
from their homes’ etc.; it is clear that this refers to the lepers of Tiberias, and not refugees 
from the earthquake of 1033 as assumed by Mann, Jews, I, 133. 262a has an additional 
detail, and that is that the sick were obliged to pay to the people who laundered their 
clothes. 265a is a fragment of a letter carried by two of the lepers’ envoys, one named 
David ha-Kohen ha-me'ulle ba-haviira (the excellent one of the yeshiva, an honorific title), 
and the other whose name was not preserved, only the name of his father, Abraham. 

63 The purpose of their arrival: 263, a, lines 11-12. Antoninus: Tobler et Molinier, I, 94f; cf. 
Couret, la Palestine, 236, and more references there; Avi-Yonah, Ge’ografya hTstont, 159f 
and references in n. 1. ‘Outside Rakkath’: 265, line 18. Moses al-Dulukl: 278, lines 31—32; 

185 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


[298] The port ofjund Urdunn, and actually the most important port in 
all of Palestine and Syria was Tyre. According to Ya'qub!, people of 
different origin lived there alongside one another. Nasir Khusraw, who 
visited Tyre in February 1047, writes that most of the Muslims there were 
Shiites while the cadi, Ibn Abi ‘Aqil was a Sunni. We have no further 
details about the Muslims in the city nor about the Christians (if there were 
any). About the Jewish community living there, we have a good deal of 
information from the Cairo Geniza. From the Geniza documents, it 
appears that Tyre had a relatively large Jewish population, which lived on 
local industries and maritime trade. The special ties with Tiberias and Acre 
can be seen in a fragment from a court deed written in Tyre in around 1015 
which deals with the legacy of a woman who died in Tiberias, and one of 
the heirs, who lived in Acre. In around 1020 we find the marriage deed of 
Haziyya (the root of the name means: luck) b. Nathan, written in Tyre. 
The groom, Mansur, was a man of Acre and the young couple were to 
move to Acre after a year of marriage, where they would be given a house 
by the father of the bride, Nathan. The bride’s parents and their children 
had the right to stay in the house when they came to Acre, either as guests 
or else permanently. Tyre was the home of the Baradan! family, an 
important and well-known Babylonian family who had apparently im¬ 
migrated from Iraq at the end of the tenth century. In approximately 1060 
we find Joseph and Nahum, sons of Sahl al-Baradani, in Tyre, with their 
trading ventures covering the entire area: Gush (which is Gush Halav), 
Tiberias, Tripoli and Aleppo. 64 

on Duluk, the ancient Dolikhe, see: Dussaud, Topographie, Index, and see also the article 
Duluk (by D. Sourdel) in EP. It is now a village which belongs to Turkey near the Syrian 
border. MuqaddasT, AqalTm, 161, 185; see the subject of the hot baths in Tiberias also in 
Ya'qubi, Buldan, 115. Sam‘ani (ed. Margoliouth), 366a, tells of visiting Tiberias (in 
around 1130); he stayed there for one night and visited the bath-house; see further: Idrlsi 
(Cerulli), 364; Ibn al-Shaddad, Barq, 106a, who notes the springs outside the city of 
Tiberias (certainly Hammat-Gader) to which all kinds of sick people come to be healed; see 
more sources: Le Strange, Palest., 334f. 

64 On the close ties between Palestine and Tyre in the consciousness of people living at that 
time one can learn from 212, lines 29-30 (Zadok ha-Levi b. Levi, around 1030): ‘For there 
are no people in all of Palestine as helpful as the people of Tyre alone’. Ya'qubi, Buldan, 
115; Nasir Khusraw, 14 (text), 47 (translation); see below, sec. 360. The matter of the 
legacy: 270; Mansur: 279; Assaf, Eretz Israel, 1(1950/51), 140, n. 8, interpreted the matter 
of the house incorrectly. The Baradanis: 492, the letter ofjoseph and Nahum, sons of Sahl 
(who is Yannai) al-Baradani, from Tyre, to Nehorai b. Nissim in Fustat; Israel b. Nathan 
(Sahlun), who writes to Nehorai b. Nissim on 29 November 1061, mentions that ‘the 
Baradanis are living in Tyre (see 479, b, line 3). The father was Joseph the cantor, 
al-Baradani; Joseph’s son, Nahum the cantor, ha-Baradani, is mentioned in a poem in 
honour of Abraham ‘rabbenu’ (our master), TS8J 1, see in Schechter, Saadyana, 66; see on 
him: Mann, JQR, NS 9(1918/9), 154f, and ibid., also a comprehensive discussion on the 
Baradanis, 150ff; the sons of Nahum were: Baruch, Yannai, Solomon; and see about the 
Baradanis also in: Scheiber Acta Orientalia (Hung.), 30(1976), 342. A letter from Nahum 
al-Baradani to Samuel b. Hofni, head of the yeshiva of Sura, written in Qayrawan on 22 


186 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275-334] 


[299] Tyre is mentioned frequently in merchants’ letters printed in my 
corpus of Geniza documents. Moreover, we have no less than sixteen 
Geniza documents written in Tyre during the first half of the eleventh 
century and another four from the end of the century and the beginning of 
the twelfth century.. It was at this time that the Palestine yeshiva moved to 
Tyre, as we shall see below. At an earlier period, it isjoseph ha-Kohen b. 
Jacob ha-sojer who was head of the Jews in Tyre. In a deed of attorney 
written in Tyre on 25 January 1011, he is still not called haver ; similarly in 
another deed of attorney from 1012, nor in a clearance deed (receipt) from 
24 November 1019 (in his handwriting). Evidently he became haver in 
about 1025, as can be deduced from a power-of-attorney written at that 
time; in his handwriting, there is also a record of evidence relating to a 
house in Aleppo from 18 October 1028. In a power-of-attorney written in 
Tyre by Solomon b. Semah, the scribe of the yeshiva of Palestine, evi¬ 
dently at the end of 1036 or the beginning of 1037, Joseph ha-Kohen of 


Av 1310 Sel., 7 August AD 999, was among the documents of the Geniza and was edited 
by: Goldziher, REJ, 50(1905), 183ff (Goldziher received the manuscript, written on 
vellum, from Schechter, but it was lost later on; see Shaked, 49). Nahum writes there that 
he is delaying his departure from the Maghrib because of some matters of business in 
Spain; he mentions a letter he had written a year earlier, which shows that he was already in 
the Maghrib for more than a year; see this letter in Mann, Texts , 1, 151 f. See further: TS 
20.100, lines 31-32, the letter ofHayy Gaon, in Mann, ibid., 1, 122, in which he mentions 
‘our treasured beloved friend, our Lord and Master Nahum the cantor ... son of our Lord 
and Master Joseph, the great cantor’; the Gaon requests the addressee (evidently in 
Qayrawan) to inform him as to the well-being of the same Nahum. This shows that from 
1006 (when this letter was written), the family was already in the Maghrib. See the 
fragment of the letter together with another fragment, in Abramson, Ba-merkazim, 95ff; 
see ibid., 91, the comments on Nahum al-Baradani and his poems, and more references. 
The Nahum who settled in Tyre was the grandson of this Nahum; the generation order: 
Joseph (Baghdad) - Nahum (Qayrawan) - Yannai (Sahl) and his sons: Nahum and Joseph 
(Tyre); three generations of Baradanis are mentioned in 426, which is a court document 
issued in about 1065: Nahum the cantor al-Baradani (who settled in Qayrawan); his son 
Yannai (Sahl) and the sons of Yannai: Joseph and Nahum. It says there that Nahum came 
from the Maghrib and brought books with him, the Talmud and other books, and also 
kuhi, Mann, JQR, NS 9(1918/9), 151, assumed that the court document stemmed from 
Baghdad and was sent to Egypt, but he was mistaken: the document was from Jerusalem 
and the defendant was from Ramla (Mann repeats the above-mentioned opinion in Texts, 
1,153, as well). It seems that Yannai and his sons moved from Qayrawan to Tyre when the 
sons were already grown, as is shown by the request of the Jerusalemite Abraham B. 
‘Amram from Nehorai b. Nissim in Fustat that he urgently obtain the evidence of the 
youngest son, Joseph, in the matter of the rights of a Jerusalemite woman to a legacy in 
Qayrawan (see 513). See also on the Baradanis: Goitein, Mediterranean Society, III, 300f; 
493, n. 107, with a list of Geniza documents in which they are mentioned. ENA NS 70, f. 
19 includes three fragments, written - it seems - by the ‘Rav’, who is Judah ha-Kohen b. 
Joseph, leader of the Maghribis. At the beginning of one of the fragments, the Baradanis 
are mentioned, as an example of people ‘of decent ways’. The name Baradan is evidently 
Bihradhan (Be-Radhan), as I have shown in JESHO, 71(1974), 320, n. 106; this was a 
province which stretched east of Baghdad along the Tigris, also called Radhan (in Arab 
sources and also in Jewish sources: Jukha), homeland of the Radhani merchants. 


187 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


Tyre signs: ‘the fourth in the havura’, which shows that he became one of 
the central figures in the Palestinian yeshiva. 65 

[300] Together with Joseph b. Jacob ha-sofir, we find another leader of 
the Jews of Tyre, Samuel he-haver b. Moses he-haver b. R. Elhanan. Six 
documents written in his handwriting are included in my corpus of Geniza 
documents. He survived Joseph ha-Kohen and is mentioned as a witness 
in a power-of-attorney on 12 December 1050. We know the name of 
his grandfather by the small letters surrounding his signature, in crypt¬ 
ography ( atbash ) meaning: b. R. Elhanan. His Arabic name was Mawhub, 
as he indicates in his letter to ‘Eli b. ‘Amram, the haver of Fustat in the 
middle of the eleventh century. It appears that he had friendly relations 
with the haver of Aleppo, Jacob b. Joseph. From his letter to the latter, we 
learn that he visited Buza'a (some 40 kilometres east of Aleppo), and the 
people of that community were very interested that he remain with them. 
We are also informed of an impending visit from thisjacob in Tyre. Some 
of these letters concern personal matters in which the letter-writers were in 
need of assistance from the people of Fustat, and indeed Samuel writes for 
them to Ephraim b. Shemaria and to his heir to the leadership of the Fustat 
Jews, ‘Eli b. ‘Amram. It is also evident that he served as a scribe for his 
community, as there are two marriage deeds from Tyre from the Geniza 
written in his characteristic handwriting. It seems that in the days of 
Samuel b. Moses, Tyre was a lively centre of social intercourse and 
regional communal activities for the Jewish communities in northern 
Syria, Aleppo and other cities. 66 

65 Documents from Tyre from the first half of the eleventh century: 268-283; later docu¬ 
ments: 600-603; deeds of attorney: 268, 269; deed of compensation: 271; first appointment 
as haver: 272; record of evidence: 273. See alsoJNUL, 4°577.4 No. 98, in his handwriting, 
of 28 November 1023, Tyre, edited by: Friedman, Marriage, II, 38ff; see also the Geniza 
letter, MS Reinach (which was in the possession ofTheodore Reinach) edited by Schwab, 
REJ, 70(1920), 59ff, which is a copy of a letter sent to Joseph ha-Kohen the haver b. Jacob 
in Tyre, evidently by Ephraim b. Shemaria in Fustat, concerning the money orders 
( diydqnes, sujtajas) signed by b. Rabi' (Solomon b. RabT, an important figure in Tyre; 
mentioned in the years 1010-1015) the deceased, which Hasan (Yefet) b. Isaac was 
supposed to have cashed in Fustat; cf. Mann, Jews, II, 355. Joseph ha-Kohen is called in the 
florid introduction to the above-mentioned letter (line 18), ‘whose title is haver, like the 
scholars ofjabneh’. It is worth noting the signatures ofjoseph ha-Kohen, surrounded by 
tiny letters, evidently a code which I have not managed to decipher as yet. 

66 The letters of Samuel b. Moses: 278-283. Witness to the power of attorney: see 307 (a 
Karaite marriage deed), line 18. See the letters surrounding his signature: 273, 278. 
Mawhub, see 283, lines 24-25. His letter to Jacob, the haver: 281; Buza'a, seethe article by 
this name (byj. Sourdel Thomine) in EP, and references there; add Ibn Khallikan, I, 145, 
who says that it is ‘a large village, in the middle of the road between Aleppo and Manbij’. 
Marriage deeds in the handwriting of Samuel b. Moses: 279, 280. As to Aleppo, some 
information on it from this early period has been preserved in the Geniza. The afore¬ 
mentioned Jacob, the haver, was on friendly terms with Solomon b. Judah, the Jerusalem 
Gaon, even before he became Gaon. See 54, Solomon b. Judah’s letter to him, and then he 
was still not titled haver, but ‘Jacob the candidate ( ha-me‘uttad) b. Joseph he-Hasid’; see 55, 


l88 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275-334] 


[301] Acre, another port in jund Urdunn, was apparently neglected 
during the first part of our period, until the last quarter of the ninth 
century, when Ibn Tuliin decided to reactivate its port. We have some 
slight knowledge of the Jewish community in Acre. The oldest piece of 
information exists in a colophon from a commentary on Isaiah by Saadia 
Gaon, in which it is written that the book had formerly belonged to Jacob 
he-haver b. Ayyub and was purchased from him by Josiah he-hdver b. 
Aaron ha-me‘ulle b. Josiah, av of the court in Acre in the year AM 4791 
(AD 1031). In that year, Josiah was granted the title of haver. It was at 
about the same time that he visited Fustat, and in a letter written by 
Solomon b. Nethanel ‘the banker’, we find expressions of regret at his 
having to leave Fustat. Afterwards, Josiah became av of the court of the 
Palestinian yeshiva. His son, Zadok, also lived in Acre, evidently until the 
seventies of the eleventh century. We come across him in Tyre, in the 
retinue of Abiathar Gaon, and he is then ‘the third’ in the yeshiva. The 
grandfather of this Josiah was not Josiah Gaon, of whom we shall hear 
more below, but Josiah the av of the court, b. Abraham Gaon. His 
brother, Isaac b. Abraham, was ‘third’ of the yeshiva, and apparently they 
flourished at the end of the tenth century. The descendants of this Abra¬ 
ham Gaon, it seems, settled in Acre where we also find the nephew of 
Josiah he-hdver, Elijah b. Aaron b. Josiah, who signs his name and notes the 
year AM 4800 (AD 1040), on the last page of the book alfiz al-miqrd, a 
Biblical dictionary which he copied for his own use. It appears that this 
family were descendants of Palestinian Geonim of the tenth century, that 
is, those who preceded the aforementioned Abraham Gaon, Meir Gaon 
and his son Aaron. There is a hint of truth in this (apart from memorial 
lists, which are not clear on this point), as can be seen from a letter written 
by Elijah b. Aaron to Ephraim b. Shemaria in Fustat, in which he confirms 
the receipt of a money order ( sujtaja ) for Isaac he-hdver. This Isaac he-haver 
(who is Isaac he-haver b. Solomon he-haver, of the descendants of Meir 
Gaon) also lived in Acre. Isaac he-haver, it states in the same letter, 
requested Elijah, who is evidently a young relative, to cash the money 
order, but Abu’l-Fadl Meshullam (the banker) claimed that the gold (the 
dinars) has not yet arrived from Tiberias and that it will arrive shortly; but 

also from Solomon to Jacob, and here he is already called haver. At the same time, there 
was another leader in Aleppo, namely Tamim, the haver, b. Tobias, see: ULC Or 1080J 
96, a power-of-attorney from 1037 written ‘in the city of Sova, situated on the river 
Quqiyon’ (Quqiyon = Quwayq). The importance of the Jewish population in Aleppo is 
borne out by the fact that one of its gates, the northern gate, was called Bab al-Yahiid: see 
MuqaddasI, Aqdltm, 155; Ibn al-'Adlm, Zubda , I, 135, 188; Ibn al-Shihna (copied from Ibn 
Shaddad), 44 (text), 36 (translation). Towards the end of the 11 th century, the leader of the 
Jews of Aleppo was Baruch b. Isaac, some of whose letters have been preserved in the 
Geniza; it is also known that he wrote a commentary to the Talmud. See on him and the 
Aleppo community: Mann, Hatequ/a, 24 (1926/7), 352ff; Assaf, Tarbiz, 19:105, 1947/8. 


189 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


merely a week after the writing of this letter, at the end of Adar, Isaac 
he-haver informed him that he has received the money. This matter con¬ 
nects up with the appeal of Moses ha-sdjer, the son of the same Isaac 
he-haver, to Abraham al-Tustari, to help him travel (to Palestine) to visit 
his sick father. Hence it seems that Isaac he-haver, who was Meir Gaon’s 
grandson, was receiving financial help for himself and his family from the 
people of Fustat, both from the ‘Palestinians’ (Ephraim b. Shemaria) and 
the Tustaris. 

In Acre, a power-of-attorney was written in the name of Radiya, the 
widow of Abraham b. Nathan (not the son of Nathan the av of the court, 
who will be dealt with below) and given to Mevorakh b. Ezekiel, to 
handle the property left her by her deceased husband in Ascalon with 
people who came from Acre, who were all from one family: Wahban, 
Sedaqa and Hulda, the mother of the two. The signature of Joseph he- 
haver b. Eleazar appears there, and he was evidently another haver who 
lived in Acre, apart from the above-mentioned Josiah and Isaac. 

Another personality among the Jews of Acre was Saadia b. Israel the 
cantor, who was granted the title of haver on behalf of the Palestinian 
yeshiva on rosh ha-shana, ca. 1045, which Abraham, son of Solomon Gaon 
b. Judah, mentions in a letter to Sahlan b. Abraham. Preserved in the 
Geniza is a letter written by Saadia ha-talmid we-ha-sojer (student and scribe; 
that is, prior to his appointment as haver) to Samuel b. Shelah in which he 
asks him to ‘come down on the sabbath to his synagogue to hear the words 
of the Torah’. One may assume that this is probably an invitation to come 
to the synagogue in Acre. Some thirty years later, Saadia ‘the haver of the 
great Sanhedrin’ writes a responsum to a certain sayyidT al-hazan concern¬ 
ing the calendar of the year AM 4838 (AD 1077/8). 

There appears to have been a centre of learning in Acre, as can be 
inferred from the letter from a refugee from Acre writing to Alexandria (in 
about 1115), apparently a man close to one of the families of the geonim of 
Palestine, to judge by the ‘alama yesha 1 yeqarev which used to be that of 
Nathan av b. Abraham. In this letter, it tells that there was a sort of colony 
of people from Tiberias in Acre. The family of the correspondent was also 
originally from Tiberias, for his father, Jacob ha-mumhe, came from there. 
He says that he prays for the well-being of the addressee with a group of 
the elite, that is, made up of refugees from Palestine, not of Alexandria, 
whose praying is not heard (and with whom he evidently is on very bad 
terms). In about 1060, the parnas of the Jerusalem Jews, ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. 
Ezekiel, stayed in Acre. He mentions in his letter to ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. 
Hayyim in Fustat that he prayed there (as he also did in Tyre) for the health 
of the Nagid in Egypt, Judah b. Saadia, and his brother Mevorakh. During 
the latter half of the eleventh century, the Spanish commentator Moses b. 
Joseph ibn Kashkll settled in Acre after wandering from Spain to Sicily, on 


190 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275-334] 

to Egypt, and from there to Mahdiyya. He appears to have lived there 
together with his brother and they stayed injerusalem for a certain time, as 
one learns from a letter of Isma‘Il b. Isaac al-Andalusi from Jerusalem to 
Yeshu'a b. Samuel in Fustat, written in around 1065. The latter wanted 
some information about the Ibn Kashkil family, and he mentions that he 
sees them very infrequently because there are certain reservations about 
them on the part of ‘the head’, evidently the Gaon Elijah ha-Kohen b. 
Solomon. These reservations may be connected with Moses b. Joseph’s 
method of interpreting the Bible. 

On 28 November 1099, slightly more than four months after the fall of 
Jerusalem, we come across a record of evidence, written in Fustat, con¬ 
cerning the legacy of a certain Isma‘U al-‘Azazi al-Halabi, who died in 
Acre. As the name indicates, he came from ‘Azaz, a fortified town which 
was the capital of a district north of Aleppo, a day’s travel from there. We 
have here a family from northern Syria who came to Acre in Palestine at 
first, where the father of the family died, while the rest of the family 
escaped to Egypt, apparently in the wake of the Crusaders’ invasion. Two 
of the heirs still remained in Aleppo with their families, whereas three 
witnesses, also of Aleppo, appeared before the court in Fustat. It should be 
noted that Acre was still under the control of the Muslims at the time, for it 
was only conquered in 1104. We have already seen above the letter of 
another refugee from Acre, who settled in Alexandria (written to Joseph 
b. Yahya in Fustat, himself a refugee from Acre), in which he speaks of the 
strained relations between the refugees and the people of Alexandria. 
Nathan ha-Kohen b. Solomon, who is himself one of the refugees from 
Baniyas and who became a judge in Fustat, writes to his father-in-law 
Tobiah ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli, also from Baniyas, who has become a leader of 
the community in Bilbays. He speaks highly to him of another refugee 
from Acre, a modest man of noble extraction, who at first settled in one of 
the towns in the Delta, hiding from the tax collectors. After he and his 
family reached Fustat, they were in great distress and their arrival became 
known to the authorities. It appears that the family wished to move to 
Bilbays, perhaps because the refugees had greater chances of coming to 
some arrangements concerning taxes in the provincial cities. Bilbays 
seems to have been such a haven, not only for the people of Acre but also 
for people from other cities in Palestine. 67 

67 The colophon: 221. Letter of Solomon b. Nethanel: 215. See in ‘the Scroll of Abiathar’, 
559, b. line 18: Zadok b. Rabbi Isaiah Av was appointed ‘third’ by Elijah Gaon, on the 
Feast of Tabernacles in 1081, in Tyre (he was ‘fourth’ before that), see his sermon ibid.\ see 
also 574, b, lines 2-3: Zadok b. Rabbi Isaiah, av-bet-dm, ‘of saintly blessed memory’ 
(perhaps he was murdered, as zekher qddosh, ‘saintly memory', may indicate). The refugee 
from Acre who lived in Alexandria (in the days of the Crusaders) mentions Zadok ‘the 
third’ who lived in Acre, see 599 (not as in Braslavi, Le-heqer, 86); this is a letter to another 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


[302] Another coastal city in jund Urdunn was Haifa. Nasir Khusraw, 
who visited Haifa in 1047, noted the existence of a shipyard there, where 
ships of th ejiidi type were constructed. Ibn Hawqal notices the fortresses 
in its area and Yaqut also speaks of the Haifa citadel. Here it becomes clear 
both from Geniza letters and from the history of the Crusaders’ conquest, 
that the fortress of Haifa (that is, that part of the town surrounded by a 
wall) was inhabited by Jews, A fragment of a deed survived in the Geniza 
in which ‘the people of the citadel of Haifa’ are mentioned; it is also 
mentioned in the description of the earthquake of the year 1033 in a letter 
written by Solomon b. Semah. Elijah Gaon held an assembly in Haifa in 
1082, when the Palestinian yeshiva was already in Tyre, and there he 
inaugurated the year, reassumed the leadership as Gaon and renewed the 
appointments to the ‘meeting house’ (bet ha-wa‘ad, a euphemism for the 
yeshiva). Naturally Haifa was chosen for this purpose because it was 
within the boundaries of Palestine according to the halakha, unlike Tyre 
where the yeshiva was then located. This was explicitly stated in the 

refugee, a man from Acre who lived in Fustat, Joseph b. Yahya; and he also has the other 
details, memories of Acre. The lineage ofjosiah, av-bet-din, BodlMSHeb (Cat. 2443) b 11, 
f. 24, edited by Poznanski, REJ, 66(1913), 62; MS Firkovitch II, 157A, fols. 9-10, edited 
by Harkavy, Hamagid, 21(1877), 134; this is a list at the end of a midrash, see film no. 10280 
at the Institute of Micro-filmed Hebrew Manuscripts in the National Library, Jerusalem; 
cf. Mann, Jews. II, 53; see also ENA 2592, f. 118v, ed. Marmorstein ,JQR, NS 18(1917/8), 
3 (a very torn and faded fragment) in which on line 11 can be found Josiah b. Abraham 
Gaon. The colophon of Elijah b. Aaron: 223. Confirmation of the money order: 222; this 
has regards to Joseph ha-sofer (the scribe), Ephraim’s son-in-law. Joseph died in 1035, 
hence the letter was written before that year. The letter of Moses ha-sofer: 224. Radiya’s 
deed: 225. Saadia b. Israel (Sa‘Id b. Isra’il): 141, line 5; this is a letter of Abraham, the 
Gaon’s son, and see: Goitein, Baron Jubilee Volume, 512f, who assumes that he is the same 
person as the Saadia b. Israel praised in 64 by the Gaon Solomon b. Judah on the fact that 
his house in Jerusalem is wide-open to the needy; but that Saadia is evidently Saadia b. 
Israel al-Tustari; see Gil, Tustaris, in the Index. Saadia’s letter: 226. Samuel b. Shelah is 
perhaps Samuel b. Sahl, of Khurasan, whose arrival in Jerusalem is announced by 
Solomon b. Judah (in a letter written by his son Abraham) to Ephraim b. Shemaria in 
about 1040, see 138, lines 19-20. The responsum: HUC 1007, edited by Assis, HUCA, 
49(1978), Hebrew section, 1-4; see the photostat ibid. , pp. 2f. The handwriting is the same 
as in 226. The letter of'Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel: 446, lines 3, 19-20. On Moses b. Joseph 
ibn Kashkll see: Mann, Texts, I, 386ff; see there a fragment of his commentary to I Sam., 
ch. xxviii (in which he criticises Samuel b. HofnI), pp. 389f; this fragment is included in the 
commentary of Isaac b. Samuel the Spaniard, who says he obtained it when he was in 
Acre, where Moses b. Joseph died; he mentions that Ibn Kashkll was a man of considerable 
knowledge of philosophy and an accomplished linguist. See also Ashtor, Shazar Jubilee 
Volume, 492 and n. 9. The letter of Isma'Il b. Isaac: 511, in the upper margin. Khalaf b. 
Isaac of Acre ('Akka) is mentioned in a copy of the protocol of the court in Fustat dated 
Monday, 15 Shevat AM 4788, 15 January AD 1028, dealing with matters of his inherit¬ 
ance. The name of his heiress: Nijwa: Bodl MS Heb d 66, f. 121, edited by Assaf, Tarbiz, 
9(1937/8), 213, cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society III, 196f. Minutes of witnesses from the 
year 1099: 598. ‘Azaz, see: Yaqut, Buldan, III, 667; Dussaud, Topographie, 195: it is Azetas 
in Plinius, Hist, nat., V:23. Refugees from Acre: 599. The letter of Nathan ha-Kohen b. 
Solomon: TS 12.789. See also the letter 609, to be discussed below. The deed of part¬ 
nership: TS 6 J 2, f. 13. 


192 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275-334] 

surviving draft of a letter from Shelah ‘the sixth’ b. Nahum, who appar¬ 
ently writes from Tyre, and is naturally one of the supporters of Abiathar 
ha-Kohen and the Palestinian yeshiva in their sharp conflict with David b. 
Daniel: ‘and we went to Haifa and at the time of the prayer I was 
proclaimed ‘the sixth’; there was unanimity that Haifa belongs to Pal¬ 
estine ...’ The Jewish character of Haifa is most marked in the account of 
Albert of Aachen of the Crusaders’ conquest, in which it emerges that 
apart from regular Muslim units (of the Fatimid army), it was the Jews 
who defended the city, as we shall see. 68 

[303] There is a relatively large amount of information preserved on 
Ascalon, especially in the Cairo Geniza. This can be explained not only by 
the accidental nature of the survival of the Geniza documents, but also by 
the fact that the city was the chief connecting link between Palestine and 
Egypt, owing to the relative proximity of Egypt and to its fortified port, 
which made it a transit point for goods and travellers, though Muqaddasi 
held that the port was not among the best. The period we are dealing with 
ends in Ascalon more than two generations after its conclusion in the rest 
of Palestine, for the Crusaders conquered it only in 1153. It appears that 
the most ancient information we have of Ascalon after the period of the 
Umayyads is the building inscription of the mosque and the mu’adhdhin’s 
tower, which attributes it to al-Mahdl, who became caliph at the death of 
his father al-Mansur in AD 775, but who ordered the mosque to be built in 
Muharram in the year AH 155, that is, at the beginning of AD 772. 
Al-Mufaddal b. Salam al-Namari and Jawhar b. Hisham al-Qurashl were 
in charge of its construction. The next information on Ascalon is in the 
year AH 237 (AD 851/2), when a great conflagration consumed the houses 
of Ascalon as well as the plantations surrounding it. There was also a 
Christian population there and I shall discuss this and the subject of its 
church, which was burnt down in 939/40, in the chapter on the Ikhshidids 
below. 69 

[304] A very unusual episode connected with Ascalon is the matter of 

68 Nasir Khusraw, 17 (text), 58 (translation); Ibn Hawqal, 166: (al-qusur al-mudafa ila hayfa)- 
Yaqut, Bulian , II, 381. The fragment of a deed: 220, line 1. The letter of Solomon b. 
Semali: 209, line 13. The assembly in Haifa: the Scroll of Abiathar: 559, b, lines 19ff. The 
bet ha-wa‘ad, ‘meeting house’ is perhaps the synagogue in Haifa and the author of the scroll 
uses here an image from Talmudic language, and one should not take it literally, as does 
Assaf, Meqorot, 11; one can easily see that the poet does not apply ziqne ‘agiila, that is the 
people of the Palestinian yeshiva, to Haifa in particular (see in the dirge he edited ibid. , 14, 
line 38 [TS Loan 51]). The letter of Shelah; 550. See on the subject of Haifa and the borders 
of Palestine: Braslavi, Eretz-Israel, 5(1958/9), 220 and notes 8 and 9 for more references. 
See on the subject of Haifa during the period under discussion also the article of El‘ad, 
Mehqanm (Haifa Univ.), 5:191, 1979/80. 

69 Muqaddasi, Aqaltm , 174; evidently biased in favour of the port of Acre, which he claims 
was built by his grandfather (see ibid., 162f).The inscription: Repertoire chronologiqtte, I, 
312f. (No. 42); the fire: Ibn Taghrl BardI, II, 290. 


193 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


the mosque where Husayn’s head was preserved. Muslim writers, evi¬ 
dently beginning with Harawl (ca. 1200), mention that there was a mem¬ 
orial ( mashhad) in Ascalon in which the head of Husayn was kept. Ibn 
Muyassar, writing some two generations later, notes that in 1098, when 
the army of al-Afdal conquered Jerusalem and Ascalon from the Saljuqs, 
al-Afdal moved the head of Husayn from the modest place in which it was 
formerly kept, to the most impressive building in Ascalon and built a 
mosque above it. However, according to him some claimed that it was 
al-Afdal’s father, Badr al-Jamall, who actually built the mosque and that 
al-Afdal only finished it. Afterwards, at the time of the Crusaders’ con¬ 
quest of Ascalon, the head was transferred to Fustat, on Sunday, the 9th of 
Jumada II in the year AH 548, that is 31 August AD 1153. The Spanish 
traveller al-‘Abdari mentions the building of the mashhad in Ascalon when 
describing the tomb of the head of Husayn in Fustat. He depicts it as the 
most magnificent building in Ascalon. Mujlr al-Din al-‘Ulaymi, writing 
towards the end of the fifteenth century, discusses this when he describes 
the minbar situated near the mihrdb in Hebron, in the Cave of Machpelah. 
He tells that the minbar had been made of superb and beautiful wood 
during the rule of the Fatimid caliph al-Mustansir, on the order of Badr 
al-Jamall, for the mashhad Husayn in Ascalon. According to its inscription, 
it was made in AH 484 (AD 1091). He imagines that Saladin, when he 
conquered Palestine, moved this minbar to Hebron, since Ascalon was in 
ruins and because he wanted to add splendour to Hebron. He mentions 
that the minbar was still there ‘until this very day’. Indeed, it remains there 
today. Van Berchem published the inscription in 1915 and it is indeed as 
al-‘UlaymI described it four hundred years earlier. He was perhaps right in 
assuming that there was a Shiite sanctuary there many generations before 
the building of this mosque. It seems that during the struggle over Pal¬ 
estine, the Fatimid rulers wanted to enhance the religious significance of 
Ascalon, and particularly its Shiite aspect, and therefore built this magnifi¬ 
cent building. 70 

[305] Letters in the Geniza from the eleventh century, especially letters 
of merchants, mention Ascalon frequently. A letter from Ascalon in 
mid-century contains a reproach against a group of the city’s inhabitants 
for conducting a campaign of slander against the letter-writer and his 

70 On the mosque of Husayn’s head, see: Harawl, 32; Ibn Muyassar, 38; Ibn Khallikan, II, 
450; aI-‘Abdari, 149, 232; Ibn Kathlr, Biddya, VIII, 204, writing in the middle of the 
fourteenth century and claiming that Husayn’s head is in Damascus; MaqrizI, Khitat , II, 
283; Itti'dz, III, 22; ‘Ulaymi, 56f; see Van Berchem, Festschr. Sachau : 298; Vincent et al., 
Hebron, 219-250. The inscription on the minbar can be read also in Repertoire chronologiqtte, 
VII, 259f (No. 2790; see also the inscription after that, No. 2791, a similar matter). ‘Arif 
al-‘Arif, Mu’jaz, 26, has no doubt about the fact that the head of Husayn was indeed 
brought to Ascalon after he was killed. 


194 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275-334] 


household. The letter is written to a Jerusalemite, Abu’l-Faraj Shemaiah 
he-hdver b. Yeshu‘a, the great-grandson of Shemaiah Gaon. The writer is 
evidently one of the community leaders in Ascalon, and he points out that 
aspersions are cast not only against him, but also against Shemaiah’s 
cousin, Mevorakh. Earlier complaints did not help and no one, neither 
their relatives nor even the physician b. al-Azhar (b. Meir?) reprimanded 
the slanderers. The only way to put an end to the slander was that the 
yeshiva should pronounce the slanderers excommunicated, particularly as 
they were seeking help from Muslims and Christians (‘the uncircum¬ 
cised’, ‘gentiles’, ‘worshippers of the cross’, mu’ahddhins). A colophon to a 
commentary of Saadia Gaon on the prayer of Shemone ‘esre, copied in 
Ascalon in 1061 by Azariah b. David, has been preserved. There is a 
fragment of a letter from one of the family of the priestly geonim of 
Jerusalem, addressed to Ascalon, evidently written in around 1070, in 
which the writer expresses satisfaction at the fact that Halfon ha-Kohen b. 
Eleazar reached Ascalon safely. Another letter has been preserved from 
‘the community of Ascalon’ to ‘the two holy communities living in 
Misrayim’ (that is in Fustat) warmly commending the governor of Asca¬ 
lon appointed by the Fatimids, Abu Hari‘, and also the ‘elder of the city’, 
perhaps the local cadi, Abu Hurayz, on the score of their good treatment of 
the Jews of the city. The Ascalon correspondents ask the leaders of the 
Fustat communities to recommend these two Muslim personalities to ‘our 
elders’, i.e. the Karaite elders, meaning ofcourse the Tustaris. Tojudgeby 
the ‘alama: yesha‘ yiihdsh (‘a swift salvation’) one can surmise that the letter 
was written in 1025, the period of the Gaon Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph. 
Mann wanted to deduce from this letter the existence of a Karaite com¬ 
munity in Ascalon and even assumed that it had been written by Karaites. 
However, he was mistaken in this, and we have no information as to 
whether there was in fact a Karaite community in Ascalon at that time. 71 

[306] During the period of Turcoman dominion over Palestine, Asca¬ 
lon remained under Fatimid control, and it underwent difficult times 
because of the lack of security that existed in Palestine. At that time, the 
Ascalon community was involved to a large extent in the conflict between 
Abiathar ha-Kohen and David b. Daniel. We find hints of the difficult 

7i The letter to Shemaiah, the haver: 526; he is frequently mentioned in letters in my 
collection, in which there is a letter of his and letters addressed to him; see the Hebrew 
Index (his brother Solomon is also occasionally mentioned). His son, Abraham b. She¬ 
maiah, was one of the judges in Fustat and his name appears on many of the court's 
documents, beginning from the end of the eleventh century. See on him: Goitein, 
Mediterranean Society, II, 512, The colophon: 528. The letter from Jerusalem: 529. The 
letter from 1025: 314. See Mann, Jews, I, 159; cf. Baron, SRHJ, V, 413, n. 75; 415, n. 82: 
Baron finds here evidence of the absence of any sharp struggle between the Rabbanites and 
the Karaites in Palestine in the eleventh century, but it is impossible to speak of evidence 
from something whose very existence is in doubt. 


195 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


situation in a letter from Nathan ha-Kohen ha-Mumhe b. Mevorakh to 
‘Eli ha-Kohen ha-parnas b. Hayyim in Fustat: . . we remain at this time 
empty from every side’. From this letter, one can also learn about a Jew of 
Ascalon who preferred to go down to Egypt, Yefet b. Kalev, and who 
took with him books which belonged to Mevorakh ha-Kohen, father of 
Nathan, the writer of the letter. It seems that the same Yefet b. Kalev (who 
is Yefet b. Halfon, or Hasan b. Kulayb) is mentioned in the deathbed will 
ofMaymun b. Khalfa al-Maghribl, dated 17 Tammuz 1383 Sel. (5 July AD 
1072) in Fustat. It says there that in a sack that belonged to the testator, 
there were also three books ( masahif) of the Bible and Prophets of Hasan b. 
Kulayb al-‘Asqalam, which were evidently the same as the books of 
Mevorakh ha-Kohen mentioned above. Mevorakh, the father of Nathan 
ha-Kohen, was still alive when this letter was written, for the writer signs: 
Nathan ha-Kohen ha-mumhe b. R. Mevorakh s. t. ( safehtav , ‘may he have 
a good end’). A vivid portrayal of the conditions in Ascalon in the eighties 
of that century, can be found in a letter full of the personal problems of 
Joseph b. Manasseh (apparently a Maghribi) from Ascalon to Abraham b. 
Isaac ha-talmid in Fustat, a letter I shall refer to below, in the discussion on 
the Saljuq period. 72 

[307] After the conquest of Jerusalem and the rest of Palestine by the 
Crusaders, Ascalon remained under Fatimid control until 1153. During 
this time, it served as a haven for refugees from Palestine who fled from the 
Crusaders and as a way-station for captives redeemed from the Crusaders. 
A moving letter written by Hillel b. ‘Eli to ‘the holy community living in 
the city of Ascalon’ describes the first reactions of the Egyptian Jews after 
the news reached them of the fall ofjerusalem to the Crusaders. In Ascalon 
itself, relatively normal conditions of community life prevailed until it, 
too, fell to the Crusaders, fifty-four years after the taking ofjerusalem. It is 
amazing to see how the Jewish community in Ascalon carried on a 
relatively orderly way of life while under the shadow of the constant threat 
from the Crusaders, its sworn enemies. A court document of Fustat 
contains a copy of a marriage deed written in Ascalon on 23 January 1100, 
some six months after the fall ofjerusalem. This is the marriage deed of 
Sitt al-Dallal b. ‘Ulla, nicknamed Thiqa al-Dawla, who married a certain 
Shelah (perhaps Shelah b. Halfon). Towards the end of the eleventh 
century and the beginning of the twelfth, the descendants of the afore¬ 
mentioned Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevorakh were the leaders of the Asca¬ 
lon community: his son, Mevorakh, his grandson Nathan and his 
great-grandson, Mevorakh. The grandson, Nathan ha-Kohen, writes, 
evidently in the eighties, a letter of recommendation for Solomon b. 

12 The letter of Nathan ha-Kohen ha-mumhe b. Mevorakh: 581, lines 8 ff. The testament of 

Maymunb. Khalfa: TS 18J 1, f. 10; ed. by GolbJJS, 20(1958), 41. The letter ofjoseph b. 


196 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275-334] 


Benjamin, who was ‘of good stock, one of the respected men of rank, 
whose table was ready and whose door always open, but on the decline 
and impoverished due to many misfortunes, and forced to ask for aid from 
his fellow men; and finally after he escaped death by the sword, he intends 
to go on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem ..The letter was addressed to 
Nathan’s relative, the parnas of Fustat, ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim, and its 
aim was to get financial aid for this Solomon b. Benjamin, who apparently 
wished to accumulate some money before settling in Jerusalem. On the 
other hand, ‘Eli ha-Kohen would on occasion also ask his Ascalon relative 
to look after people from Fustat who came to Ascalon, as we see in the 
instance of Sedaqa ha-Levi ha-hazan b. Solomon who had to reach thaghr 
‘Asqalan (the fortified port of Ascalon) but according to Nathan ha- 
Kohen, had not arrived yet. It appears that the Ascalon community was 
considerably helped by the Jews of Fustat in matters of welfare, and the 
extent of the grants to the needy was determined in Fustat. This we learn 
from a letter from the same Nathan ha-Kohen to Abraham b. Eleazar in 
Fustat, written in 1130, with the request that he intervene on behalf of a 
blind man from Hamah in Syria, whose monthly allowance has been 
decreased. His case had already been brought before al-majlis al-‘al, appar¬ 
ently the court of the yeshiva, which was already in Fustat. Another letter 
from Nathan ha-Kohen, to one of the important figures in Fustat, contains 
a request that he use his influence with Abu’l-Hasan ha-Kohen, who is 
undoubtedly the same ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim (it is interesting that this 
time he does not write to him directly) to help the son of al-Mufawwakh 
al-Zajjaj, the son-in-law of Sa‘d b. Mansur, the husband of Thumama b. 
Sa‘d, who had fled to Fustat because he owed ten dinars. If help could not 
be obtained in this manner, the Nagid must be approached and he would 
undoubtedly know how to deal with someone in such a situation, just as 
he had helped Abu’l-Tayyib (who is evidently Khalaf b. ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. 
Ezekiel). The remark he makes is interesting, that at the time the letter was 
written none of the Jews of the town remained in Ascalon, save some poor 
wretches (Juqara’ shahhadhtn). In around 1135, a woman of Ascalon staying 
in Fustat writes a letter to the Fustat judge, Yahya, who is Hiyya b. Isaac b. 
Samuel the Spaniard, introducing herself as the daughter ofHilal, who is 
Hillel, who had been ‘the elder of thejews in Ascalon’. In the letter she asks 
the judge to use his influence to help her two brothers in Ascalon, one of 
whom, Sa‘d, is khadim al-yahiid, i.e. beadle in the synagogue, and he was 
evidently dismissed and thus their livelihood was gone. She was also in 
need, for they had supported her and her children, and twice she stresses 
that she is a refugee. The backbone of the welfare activities in Ascalon was 

Manasseh: 593. Abraham b. Isaac ha-talmld, a personality in Fustat, a MaghribI, who had 

a special connection with Ascalon; see on him below. 


197 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


the community heqdesh. We do not know the extent of its assets; we only 
know about a flat leased at a quarter of a dinar annually to Solomon 
ha-Zariz b. Halfon. In addition to a fragment of the deed of lease, receipts 
for the rent, from the twenties of the twelfth century through October 
1146, written on the verso of the deed, have been preserved. Each of these 
receipts is signed by two judges; receipts with the signature of Nathan 
ha-Kohenb. Mevorakh —from the years 1132, 1134, 1135,1139, 1142 and 
1143 have been preserved; and with the signature of his son Mevorakh - 
from the years 1140, 1145 and 1146. It appears that Nathan ha-Kohen died 
in 1144, as in 1145 his son’s signature appears (on the 8th of Shevat: or 
Thursday, 4 January): ‘Mevorakh ha-Kohen b. R. Nathan ha-Kohen 
ha-me‘ulle ha-dayyan ha-mufla, may the memory of a righteous and holy 
man be blessed, may he rest in paradise’; from the word ‘holy’ we can 
assume that Nathan his father had been murdered. 

Nevertheless there were also wealthy people among thejews of Ascalon 
at that time. Abraham b. Sedaqa al-‘Attar (the scent dealer) who was called 
‘friend of the yeshiva’ (that is, he was one of the donors) writes a money 
order, written in the form of a letter, for the sum of five dinars for his 
relative Abu’l-Hasan Raja’ of Ascalon, who was travelling to Fustat in 
August—September 1116. Raja’ would collect the money from Nethanel 
ha-talmid b. Sedaqa Sar Menuha al-‘Attar. One is speaking here of rela¬ 
tives, cousins (the father of the writer was the brother of the addressee’s 
mother). This was a family of scent dealers, and we learn from this that 
there was still commerce in scents going on through the port of Ascalon. 

The concerns of the heqdesh was the thrust of an argument which broke 
out within the Ascalon community at the beginning of the twelfth cen¬ 
tury. Most of the community wished to use the money of the heqdesh to 
repair the synagogue, while the cantor wanted to buy mats to sit on. The 
community protested that mats should be bought from community 
funds. The cantor and his brother organised their own coterie, with the aid 
of the local parnas and the khaltliym, or people of Hebron, sixteen in 
number, who were clearly Jews who had fled from Hebron and found 
refuge in Ascalon after the Crusaders’ conquest. The community called a 
sort of strike and did not appear in the synagogue for several weeks. The 
letter describes the parnas as an overbearing person and describes how 
matters almost came to blows; the judge, an emissary of the Nagid (from 
which we understand that there was no permanent judge in Ascalon at the 
time), succeeded in becalming the atmosphere while the people of the 
community managed to extort some concessions concerning the prayer 
routine in which the son of the parnas had formerly enjoyed priority over 
others of the same age (in saying the nishmat kol hay, for instance). The 
writers continue to complain (evidently to the Nagid in Egypt) that the 


198 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275-334] 

parnas does not stand by what was agreed upon. From the letter it emerges 
that there were about one hundred Jewish families in Ascalon. 73 

[308] At the time of the Crusaders’ conquest in 1153, the Jews of 
Ascalon escaped to Egypt. A fragment of a deed of sale written by Halfon 

73 Hillel b. ‘Ell’s letter.' 573. Copy of the marriage deed: 594; Shelah b. Halfon b. Solomon is 
mentioned in 421, letter of Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon (when he was still av-bet-dln, see 
note 72) to his father Halfon in Ascalon. ENA NS 38, f. 11 is a fragment of an illegible 
letter in the handwriting of Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevorakh (the grandson), written in his 
name and that of Yeshu'a b. Yefet; his son Mevorakh is a signatory thereto as well; their 
'alama: yesha' rav (‘a great salvation’ like that of the Gaon Solomon b. Judah). Yeshu’a 
‘the excellent (haver), the judge’ b. Yefet W3S also one of the scholars in Ascalon at the 
beginning of the twelfth century, and it seems that he was a partner of the Nathan 
ha-Kohen family in managing the affairs of the Ascalon community (see: 588, upper 
margin, line 7; 589, upper margin, line 6). His son Yefet was also involved in community 
affairs in Ascalon (see: 592, where his signature appears a number of times). The letter of 
recommendation to Solomon b. Benjamin: 582; written perhaps in 1098, after the Fatimid 
conquest ofjerusalem, and perhaps during a relatively peaceful period during the Turko¬ 
mans’ rule. In 583, Nathan ha-Kohen signs his letter to ‘Eli ha-Kohen, the parnas of Fustat: 
‘Your hamud [endeared, i.e. son] Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevorakh, may he have a good 
end.’ This seems to have misled Braslavi, Le-heqer, 45, into thinking that he was address¬ 
ing his father; but see 586, where it says in the upper margin, lines 5ff, that Nathan 
ha-Kohen b. Mevorakh’s sister was married to ‘Eli ha-Kohen’s son, that is, he was the 
brother of‘Eli’s daughter-in-law and hence addressed him as a father. Braslavi was also 
mistaken in thinking that ‘Eli ha-Kohen was apparently a new figure in the Geniza 
findings; actually he is often mentioned in documents edited by Mann, Jews - see in the 
Index, ‘All b. Yahya Hakkohen and also ‘All b. YaTsh Hakkohen, which are merely the 
names of the same ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim. TS 8J 4, f. 4, which bears his signature, is 
mentioned in Mann, Jews, II, 240 (see a correction of an error on p. 385, ibid., in the left 
column); see the Hebrew Index. ‘Eli ha-Kohen is mentioned in Geniza documents from 
1057 to 1107. Cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 78, 83, 129, who has details of his 
functions in the Fustat welfare system; Chapira, REJ, 82(1926), 329, n. 1, tried to identify 
him with ‘Allun, mentioned in a letter of Hayy Gaon to Sahlan b. Abraham, but they are 
not identical, cf. Mann, Jews, II, 254, in the MS; Nathan ha-Kohen (the first) is the writer 
of 581. From 582, line 12, it appears that the permanent addressee of the family in Fustat, 
the aforementioned ‘Eli ha-Kohen, was the grandfather’s brother (on the mother’s side) of 
Nathan (the second) b. Mevorakh (grandson of the first). The genealogy would be as 
follows: 


Hayyim (Yahya) 



‘Eli (the parnas) 


The grandfather of Nathan (2) 


Mevorakh (1) 
Nathan (1) 


a daughter 


-Mevorakh (2) 


Nathan (2) 


The matter of Sedaqa ha-Levi b. Solomon: 583, a, lines 9-11. The matter of the blind man: 
590, see especially line 16; cf. Mann, Jews, II, 339. Abraham b. Eleazar is mentioned in BM 


199 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


b. Manasseh shows that people from Ascalon had lived in Bilbays even 
before the Crusaders conquered their city (for Halfon b. Manasseh, the 
scribe of the community in Fustat, died before that). It mentions ‘the 
Ascalonians who now live in Bilbays’. Some fifteen years after the Cru¬ 
saders’ conquest, Benjamin of Tudela visited Ascalon and he found there 
‘some two hundred Rabbanitejews headed by R. Semah and R. Aaron and 
R. Solomon, some forty Karaites and some three hundred Kutlm [= 
Samaritans]’. 74 

[309] On Gaza there is little information in the works of the Muslim 
geographers apart from short and insignificant descriptions. The Frankish 
monk Bernard, who visited it in 867, notes its tremendous wealth, by 
which he certainly means the lush plantations in the neighbourhood. In the 
Geniza documents there is some information about the Jews of the city. 
During the Byzantine era, Gaza was a way-station for pilgrims coming 
from Egypt. From about 800 we hear about Moses the Gazan (ha-‘azatt) 
grammarian and hence one can assume that there was some sort of centre 
for study and learning there. In the eleventh century there was still a 
community in Gaza despite the constant wars raging in the area, but it 
seems that the Jews began to leave the city during the last quarter of the 
tenth century. Ephraim b. Shemaria, the leader of the Jews of Fustat 
during the first half of the eleventh century, generally signed his name as 
‘ben Shemaria ha-melammed (ben Yahya) ha-'Azatt (and in Arabic: ibn 
Mahfuz al-GhazzI). It seems therefore that his father arrived in Egypt after 
he left Gaza. The family dealt in perfumes, and apparently laid the foun¬ 
dations for this enterprise while still in Gaza, through which he transacted 
business. A letter from ‘the community of Gaza and the displaced’ con¬ 
tains an appeal to the court in Fustat in which there was severe criticism of 


Or 5856, a letter containing a request for aid directed to him by Joseph ha-Kohen b. 
Eleazar. The matter of b. al-Mufaw wakh: 591. Abraham b. Sedaqa al-‘Attar, see: 596. The 
daughter of Hilal: 597. The heqdesh: 592, in the handwriting of Nathan b. ha-Kohen b. 
Mevorakh (the grandson) and that ofhis son Mevorakh in the continuation. The signature 
of Mevorakh is surrounded by tiny letters which when read alternately from the top and 
the bottom say; ‘great-grandson of Aaron; my Holy, for thy salvation I hope’; see ENA 
4011, f. 8, a fragment which is the beginning of a letter from Mevorakh ha-Kohen b. 
Nathan to ‘Eli b. Yefet (Abu’l-Hasan ‘All b. Husayn) and therein also the same formula. 
The dispute in the synagogue: 595. From the fact that many Hebronites lived in Ascalon, 
one can undoubtedly assume that the letter was written after 1099. 588a has evidence of the 
commerce carried on between Ascalon and Egypt at the beginning of the twelfth century 
while Palestine was already mainly in the hands of the Crusaders. This letter also mentions 
the man who was the central figure in Ascalon at the time, the judge (‘the excellent haver’) 
Yeshu‘a b. Yefet. 

74 See TS 6 J 2, f. 13: 154 (?) dinars is being spoken of as owing to the people of Ascalon 
residing in Bilbays; also mentioned there is Yahya b. Najm (evidently Hayyim b. Hillel) 
al-‘AkkawI, that is a man of Acre who also found refuge in Bilbays; Benjamin ofTudela 
(Adler), 28f. 


200 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS, 275-334] 


the decision taken by Ephraim b. Shemaria concerning the claim of 
Mevorakh b. Nathan, of Gaza, who asked for the legacy of his brother 
‘Amram, who died ‘in the land of Pithom’, that is, evidently in the region 
of the Fayyum in Egypt. The date of the letter is apparently about 1030 and 
it seems likely that Jews from the villages and hamlets in southern Pal¬ 
estine sought refuge in Gaza, and are ‘the displaced’ mentioned in the 
letter. No less than fifteen people signed the letter, the most important 
signing last: Yeshu‘a he-haver be-s.g. (in the Great Sanhedrin) b. R. Nathan 
(surrounding his name in tiny letters which when read upwards and 
downwards alternately made up the words: great-grandson of Gur Arie 
[lion’s cub]). Yeshu'a b. Nathan is the author of a piyyut (qedushta) on the 
death of his son Josiah; it seems that Yeshu'a was the leader of the Jews of 
Gaza at that time. One can assume that the entire Jewish community in 
Gaza was uprooted at the time of the Crusaders’ conquest, and it seems 
that part of it moved to Ascalon. This emerges from the letter from the 
Gazan Eleazer ha-Kohen ha-mumhe, the judge, b. Zechariah, apparently 
from Ascalon, to ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim in Fustat, perhaps a relative of 
the writer. Eleazar asks ‘Eli to help him out with obtaining a prayer shawl, 
or the money to buy one. It seems that this Eleazar was the son of 
Zechariah ha-Kohen b. Kulayb (a diminutive from Kalev = Khalaf = 
Aaron; hence his entire Hebrew name: Zechariah b. Aaron) signed in the 
aforementioned letter of the Gazans. In the letter, ‘the community of our 
people of Gaza’, that is, the Gazans who found refuge in Ascalon are 
mentioned. The people of Gaza who live in Ascalon are also mentioned in 
a letter from Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevorakh, the Ascalonite, who also 
wrote to ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim in Fustat - they are suspected of having 
spoken derogatively of some of the public figures in Ascalon to the nasi, 
David b. Daniel. 75 

75 Geographers: see for instance MuqaddasI, Aqalim, 174, who mentions the beautiful 
mosque and the mashhad of ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab; they also mention that Gaza is the 
location of the grave of Hashim ibn ‘Abd Manaf (one of the forefathers of Muhammad); 
see: Le Strange, Palestine, 442. Bernard, in Tobler et Molinier, I, 314, (= MPL 121, 571); 
Moses ha-naqdan: Harkavy, Hadashim (reprint), 20 (= No. 2, p. 8); Mann, Jews, II, 47; 
Assaf, Meqorot, 30. Ephraim b. Shemaria, see for instance: 35, b; 413, lines 3-4; bosman 
(‘spice merchant’) in 46, line 16; see on the origin of Ephraim b. Shemaria and his 
signatures: Assaf, Yemshalayim, 1952/3, 104. n. 9; Gil, Documents, 154, n. 9. The letter 
from the Gazans: 219. Fragments from the qedushta of Yeshu'a b. Nathan were edited by 
Zulay, Yedi'ot, 3 (1936/7), 176; his signature on one of the colophons: Yeshu'a the haver b. 
R. Nathan, great-grandson of Gur Arie, and similarly in 219, line 64; Zulay (ibid.) assumed 
that this perhaps hints at his being a descendant of the head of the exilarchic family; see also 
his note in Yedi'ot, 5(1938/9), 170, that the handwriting of these fragments and that of the 
Gazans’ letter are identical; see also Assaf, ibid., 34; Fleischer, HalkinJubilee Volume, 185fF, 
edited additional fragments from the aforementioned qedushta; his signature in the qe¬ 
dushta: Yeshu'a the Judge b. R. Nathan, and as he was as yet not called haver, one can 
assume that it was written relatively early; his son Josiah died at the age of six (see in 
Fleischer ibid., p. 184, nn. 5, 7); see on Yeshu'a the haver b. Nathan also in: Goitein, 


201 




THE LOCAL POPULATION AI^D THE MUSLIMS 

[310] In the month of March, AD 1052, a group of Karaites, consisting 
of both Jerusalemites and Gazans, visited the fields in the Gaza area in 
order to test the avTv, that is, the degree of ripeness of the growing grain, 
and to decide whether they could declare that year a leap year. From this 
account we know that there were also Karaites in Gaza. The visit took 
place in a field on the land of suq mazin (‘ala haql bi-ard suq mazin min kiira „ 
ghazza); 376 years earlier, in February 676, a similar expression is recorded 

in the papyri of Nessana: Klema Sykomazon khdras Gazes; and in the 
Targum ofjerusalem (to Num., xxxiv:15) we find: \ . . it fell in their lot 
[the area] to Rafiah and Shuqmazaye, until one reaches the border of the 
salty sea’ [ydmd de-milha’; it is possible that by ydmd de-milha the Mediter¬ 
ranean is intended, like in Arab sources of the Middle Ages]. During the 
Byzantine period Sykomazon was an important town and the seat of a 
bishop. 76 

[311] The Muslim geographers have little to say about Jericho as well. It 
seems that the city was on the decline and nothing is known of its Jewish 
population; at least there is no mention of it in the Geniza, apart from one 
man whose name was al-Rlhanl, who lived ca. 1040 in a dwelling of the 
Jewish waqf (qodesh) in Fustat, and as his name indicates, he came from 
Jericho. The Muslim sources dealing with the Dead Sea region particularly 
mention the date palms which grow in this area in abundance, and also the 
indigo. The most important city in the region of the Dead Sea was So'ar 
(Zoar), in Arabic Zughar, or Sughar, near the southern part of the Dead 
Sea. Frequently in Arab sources, the Dead Sea is called ‘the sea of Zughar’. 

Mediterranean Society, III, 234; 476, n. 76. The letter of Eleazar ha-Kohen: 619; it is possible 
that Halfon ha-Kohen b. Eleazar, about whom it is said in 529, line 15, that he went to 
Ascalon ‘as ordered’, was the son of this Eleazar, thejudge from Gaza, and this emigration 
from Gaza to Ascalon is apparently being hinted at here. The letter from Nathan ha-Kohen 
b. Mevorakh: 587 (autumn 1093), lines 6-7: ‘people from among the Gazans who are not 
inhabitants of the city [that is, Ascalon] and do not know the real situation of the 
community 

76 The visit of the Karaites: 302. See: Nessana, 189 (No. 64, line 8); the Targum, see in the 
Miqra’ot geddlof, also Neophyti (ed. Diez Macho, Madrid, 1974), IV, 323: ‘it fell in their lot 
[the area] to RJywn and Shuqmazaye and to the cave of‘Eyn Gedi until one reaches the salty 
sea’ (thus in the photocopy, the Neophyti, Jerusalem, 1971, fol. 351), and we can see that 
the scribe distorted the names and mixed up the order. On the Byzantine period: Hiero- 
cles, Synecdemtis, 44; Georgius Cyprius, Descriptio, 52 (where Eukomazon is printed); 
according to Musil, Edom, 222, who visited the ruins of Suq Mazin on 29 March 1898, the 
Bedouin of Banu Sheyla built a village for themselves out of these ruins; he points out that 
Sykomazon is also marked on the Madaba map. In 1906 the land of Suq Mazin (as the 
Bedouin called it) was in the hands of the Banu Sheyla and Banu’l-Najira, who were 
constantly fighting one another over them, see: Jaussen, RB, 3(1906), 607; cf. Klein, 
ZDPV, 33(1910), 33; Abel, JPOS, 4(1924), 117. Suq Mazin, five kilometres southeast 
of Dayr al-Balah; cf. further: Alt, Palastinajahrbuch, 29(1933), 76; see also Clermont- 
Ganneau, Recueit, V, 120, nn. 3, 4; Avi-Yonah, Ge’dgrafya historit, 74 and n. 10; 118 and 
n. 13, and more references there; see Bar Deroma, Gevul, 512, 636f and n. 740, who has 
details that need correcting in the light of what was said above. 


202 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275-334] 


In a letter from the Geniza from ca. 1065, written by Avon b. Sedaqa, it is 
mentioned that indigo and wasma seeds (also a kind of indigo) were 
brought from Zughar, but the road from there was dangerous and one of 
the Maghribi merchants, Joseph b. ‘All Kohen FasI, who considered going 
there from Hebron, changed his mind and forwent the journey. On the 
other hand, it seems that in the middle of the tenth century there were still 
Jews living in So‘ar, as is proven by a copy of a court document, whose 
original is said to be preserved in Granada (Gharnata), and which deals 
with the legacy of a man of Alisana (Lucena), Abraham b. Meir (whose 
nickname was b. Qalus). The court document was made at the request of 
the son of the deceased, Samuel. The father had left property, merchandise 
and money in Egypt and Palestine. Joshua b. Nathan (who is Abu’l-Surur 
Yamani al-Andalusi) was appointed trustee in charge of the property; in a 
list of the details, property with so-and-so living in So‘ar in Palestine is 
also mentioned (the man’s name has not been preserved). In a letter from 
Jerusalem written by Hayyim the haver b. Solomon to Isaac b. Jacob the 
haver in Fustat, dealing with the collection of a debt owing to this Isaac, it 
says that the debtor lived in So‘ar (spelled Zughrar; evidently this error in 
spelling was caused by the difficulty of pronouncing the ghayin together 
with the ra’). To sum up, it seems that the region of So‘ar, and the region 
of the Dead Sea in general, was more active during the period under 
discussion than later on. It is likely that Jews lived in So’ar, though we 
have no knowledge of a Jewish community there. However, Jewish 
merchants were particularly interested in this region because of the indigo 
plant, which was used for extracting dyes for textiles. 77 

77 Jericho: see MuqaddasI, Aqalwt, 175. Al-RIhanI: Gil, Documents, 195, n. 9 (see documents 
No. 22 [TS 20.168], line 33; No. 24 [TS Box K 25, f. 84], b, line 5). Muslim traditions on 
So‘ar (connecting it with Lot and his daughters) see: Le Strange, Palestine, 287ff. Arculf 
calls the place Zoaroi Arabiae, see in Tobler et Molinier I, 179; ‘the sea of Zughar’: see 
Istakhrl, 13; according to MuqaddasI, Aqdlttn, 185, youth (ahdath) and sick people gather at 
the sea of Zughar, that is, the Dead Sea (apparently at its southern end), during the month 
of Ab (August); IdrisI (Cerulli), 354f, describes the region, mentions Sodom and Gomor¬ 
rah and ‘the people of Lot’ (these details are also found in other Muslim geographers), and 
he mentions that there are small sailing ships moving about on the Dead Sea, carrying 
passengers and goods, mainly dates; see Daniel the Russian, 47: Sigor, where the grave of 
Lot and his two daughters is situated. The sources also mention the region in connection 
with the cultivation of indigo; Salmon b. Yeruhim mentions Zughar in his Arabic 
commentary on Ecclesiastes, BM Or 2517, fol. 92b (The labour of the foolish wearieth 
every one of them, because he knoweth not how to go to the city; x:15) ‘like a man who 
leaves Ramla for Jerusalem (Bayt al-Maqdis), which is quite a famous road; if he wants to 
make a short-cut, he will pass through ‘Imwas and Qaryat al-‘anab; but he [the fool] will 
not go this way but will go towards Gaza and turn towards Bayt Jibrln and from there to 
Zughar and afterwards return to ‘Eyn Gedi and from there to Jericho and from there to 
Jerusalem ...’ Indirectly we have learned that S6‘ar was situated to the south of the Dead 
Sea, a fact which was disputed for some time (see: Le Strange, Palestine, 286f). The letter of 
Avon; 503, lines 15ff. The copy of the court document: BM Or 5561 A, f. 1, upper part, 
vellum. The deceased, Abraham b, Meir al-Andalusi, is mentioned in 159, a letter of 


203 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


[312] We have detailed evidence of the Jewish community in Rajtah 
(Rafah in Arabic), about which the Muslim sources tell us practically 
nothing, merely that it had a prosperous population and a market, a 
mosque and also inns. The city was considered the frontier of Palestine, 
that is, the last city before entering Egypt. In about 1020, the Gaonjosiah 
writes to the Rafiah community concerning the division of a legacy, which 
caused one of the parties to apply to the Muslim courts. In 1044, Karaites 
went there to examine the state of the fields with regard to the avw. 7i 

[313] During the Muslim period Eilat became an important station on 
the way to Mecca for pilgrim caravans. We have already seen the treaty 
between the Prophet and the population of Eilat, as well as the matter of 
people converting to Islam, the mawali (clients) of the Umayyads (still in 
the days of‘Uthman), who lived in Eilat, including a number of important 
figures in the development of ancient Muslim literature. It is not known 
whether these mawali were former Jews or Christians. Lammens claimed 
that Eilat was a Christian city, basing his argument particularly on the fact 
that the inhabitants’ representative in their negotiations with Muhammad 
during the Tabuk campaign, Yuhanna, is said in some sources to have 
been the bishop ofEilat. Further proof he found in a tradition according to 
which Marwan ibn al-Hakam was aided by 200 Christians(I) of Eilat to 
organise a police force in Medina when he was still governor of Medina 
before he became caliph, but the source he mentions does not refer to 
Christians at all, merely to ahl ayla, a term which undoubtedly means 


Solomon b. Judah to Abraham ha-Kohen b. Haggai in Fustat; speaking there of a large 
debt left by the deceased, mentioning also Joshua b. Nathan (his name is found in my 
Geniza collection, see the Hebrew Index), who was the trustee for the legacy together with 
Abraham ha-Kohen b. Haggai; cf. Goitein, Eretz Israel, 12(1974/5), 200, and n, 7 (= 
ha-Yishuv, 201); however, TS 13J 14, f. 24, a court document dated 7 Teveth 1344 Sel., 12 
December AD 1032, which Goitein edited there, is not from So‘ar but from Hanes (as is 
written in line 14). which is Tinnls; in the original; ‘Hanes the island near the Salty Sea’ 
(lines 14-15); cf. Golb, JNES , 33(1974), 143; the city of the island of Hanes is Tinnls; ‘the 
Salty Sea’ meant, in the Arabic of the Middle Ages the Mediterranean - cf. Goitein, 
Mediterranean Society, l, 296; 474, n. 15; ibid, he cites ENA 1822, f. 7, line 21: al-bahr 
al-malih, the Mediterranean. See for instance Idris! (Cerulli), 370; al-bahr al-milh (the 
Mediterranean). See also the qerova for the eighth day of the Feast of the Tabernacles edited 
by Zulay, Yerushalayim, 1952/3, lines 42-43, where the salty water of‘the Great Sea’ is put 
in opposition to the malodorous one of the ‘Sea of Sodom’. See also: Friedman, Marriage, 
II, 316f for an opinion similar to mine. (The court document from Hanes confirms the 
receipt of money from Hasana, daughter of Nahum, through Sar Shalom b. Joseph, and 
signatories there are: Mevasser ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli; A[aron(?)] the scribe b. Nahum; Abra¬ 
ham b. Mevasser; Aaron the haver b. R. Yahya.) The region of So‘ar (Zughar) is 
mentioned in 301, line 31: The Karaites examine the state of the avTv (the first crops) there 
in 1044. The Jerusalem letter: 463, a, line 22. 

78 See Yaqut, II, 7%, who cites al-Muhallabi (end of the tenth century); he mentions that the 
place is inhabited by tribesmen from Lakhm and Judham, and that security there is at its 
lowest (it is difficult to know what period he is talking about). The letter ofjosiah Gaon: 
43. The Karaites: 301, line 30. 


204 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275-334] 

tribesmen from Eilat. On the other hand, the Muslim tradition found in 
the commentaries to the Koran states that Eilat was a Jewish city in the 
period before Islam and identifies it with the city mentioned in the Koran, 
vii:163-169 (surat al-a‘rdf) ‘ask them about the city near the sea, whose 
[inhabitants] desecrated the sabbath when the fish [in the sea] there came to 
them . .. for since they had the nerve to do this evil which was forbidden 
for them to do, We [i.e. God] told them: be outcast monkeys’; this is 
evidently the metamorphosis of a Jewish legend about Jewish fishermen 
who became monkeys on God’s orders because they desecrated the sab¬ 
bath. The commentators generally claim that Eilat (Ayla) is intended, 
although there are hadlth traditions which point to other places. The truth 
in this case is evidently somewhere in the middle, namely that Eilat in the 
Prophet’s day was a city with a mixed population ofjews and Christians. 
In the period we are discussing here, however, we have no information 
regarding Christians in Eilat; and altogether there is very little information 
about the city. Maqrizi mentions that in the days of Khumarawayh b. 
Ahmad ibn Tulun, works were carried out in the mountain-pass of Eilat, 
the ‘aqaha ('aqabat ayla - hence its name for later generations), in order to 
widen it; the work was supervised by his mawla, Fa’iq, for it was formerly 
impossible to pass through the road mounted (in ca. 860). A house belong¬ 
ing to a Jewish woman in Eilat is mentioned at about the same time. 79 

[314] Hebron is almost never mentioned in Muslim literature before the 
tenth century, which indicates that it was not rated highly. This is also 
suggested by the fact that its name is not mentioned in the Muslim 
traditions of the conquest. In the tenth century, the Muslim geographers 
Istakhri, Ibn Hawqal and MuqaddasI, mention Hebron and we find in 
their writings descriptions of the patriarchs’ graves. This is especially true 
in the account of MuqaddasI, who also quotes praises of the area for its 
excellent fruits. He furthermore mentions the inn (Junduq ) in Hebron, 
open to strangers, which boasts a cook, a baker and servants, who serve a 
meal of lentils (‘adas) with olive oil to the poor and to pilgrims, and even to 
the rich, should they want it. This inn, together with its services, was 
supported by revenue from the waqfs, which were founded by Tamlm 
al-Dari and others, among them rulers of distant countries who left 
property in their wills for this purpose — all this to maintain Abraham’s 
traditional hospitality to strangers. Nasir Khusraw, who visited Hebron 
in 1047, describes the graves of the patriarchs, especially the mashhad 
of Abraham (al-Khalll). He also describes the hospitality according to 
79 Lammens, Mo'awia, 433f, who quotes from Isbahani, Aghatii, IV, 156; see what is said 
there. Commentary; see for instance Tabari, Tafsir, XIII, 180ff: some say the intention is 
to Maqna or Madyan; cf. Ibn al-jawzl, Tafsir , fob 30; Ibn Hayyan, IV, 410; in Mawsili, 
Nihaya, 57b, Ayla became Iliya, that is Jerusalem; see Maqrizi, Khitat, l, 325. The house of 
the Jewish woman; Ibn Sa‘d, VII(2), 206; Ibn al-Jawzi, Sifa, IV, 305. 


205 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


Abraham’s tradition: the strangers are given bread, olives, lentils in olive 
oil and raisins. He also mentions the gifts given to the mashhad by the 
Fatimid rulers of Egypt. Apart from these literary sources, the inscription 
on the grave of a man named Husayn al-Ahwal should also be noted, in 
which it says that he fell in battle, in Safar in AH 390, or January/February 
AD 1000. There is evidently an indication here that the Muslims (like the 
Jews) saw some advantage to being buried in Hebron. 80 

[315] It is interesting to note that in the Geniza documents pertaining to 
this book, the name ‘Hebron’ is not mentioned, only ‘the graves of the 
patriarchs’. The documents show that there was an organised community 
in Hebron with a haver at its head, and that they were largely occupied 
with the pilgrims who came to the ‘graves of the patriarchs’. On visits to 
Hebron for religious purposes, we find some detailed evidence. Around 
1060 ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, the parnas of Jerusalem, writes to Abu’l- 
Hasan ‘Allun b. Ya‘Ish, who is ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim, the parnas in 
Fustat, informing him in the opening sentences of the letter that he went to 
the ‘graves of the patriarchs’, together with some other people, and said a 
special prayer there for the haver Abu Zikri and his son (Abu Zikrl is Judah 
b. Saadia, the Egyptian Nagid), for ‘the prince [sar] of the congregation’ (it 
is difficult to know who he is referring to, perhaps Abraham ha-Kohen b. 
Isaac b. Furat), and for the addressee. He swears byjerusalem that he did 
so, and all this before the approaching Days of Awe. He points out that he 
prayed for them while the Torah was open, proof indeed that there was a 
synagogue in the place — the synagogue near the graves of the patriarchs. 
The Maghribi merchant Barhun b. Musa (Abraham b. Moses) al-Tahirtl 
writes from Jerusalem to his relative and partner Nehorai b. Nissim and 
mentions that he intends to visit the ‘graves of the patriarchs’ together 
with his father. Another Maghribi merchant, Avon b. Sedaqa, writes on 
28 August 1065, complaining that his partner went to the ‘graves of the 
patriarchs’ and made an unsuccessful deal there in buying wheat. From 
this we learn that Hebron was also a meeting-place for Jewish merchants. 
In another letter, Avon complains that the same partner made this deal 
with money which he had loaned to him, in order to go to So‘ar (Zughar), 
but he was afraid to go there and remained stuck at the ‘graves of the 
patriarchs’. Some of the letters from Hebron are from the Saljuq period 
and it can be seen from them that thejewish community there continued 
to exist. At the head of the community stood Saadia the haver b. Abraham 
b. Nathan, who calls himself‘the haver of the graves of the patriarchs, of 
blessed memory’. In a letter written in ca. 1080 to Yeshu'a b. Yakhin in 

80 Istakhri, 57; Ibn Hawqal, 113; MuqaddasI, Aqaltm, 172; Nasir Khusraw, 33f (text), 99-105 
(translation). Ibn al-‘ArabI (about 1095) tells of Muslims performing the ziyara in Hebron, 
see; Rihla, 82; also al-Ghazall testifies to having performed a ziyara in Hebron himself 


206 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275-334] 

Fustat, he mentions that his son Abraham carries Hebron cheese to Egypt. 
From the letter, it sounds as if this Hebronite is a relative of the Egyptian 
Nagid Mevorakh, and he sends his regards to him and to the widow of 
Mevorakh’s brother, Judah b. Saadia, and to Saadia, the son of Judah. In 
another letter he wrote to Abiathar ha-Kohen Gaon b. Elijah at the 
beginning of the year 1082 (the date emerges from the contents), Saadia 
the haver expresses his joy and congratulations on the appointment of 
Abiathar ha-Kohen as Gaon (which is described in the ‘Scroll of 
Abiathar’). He mentions that the Hebronites pray for him ‘at the graves of 
the patriarchs’ every day, as they did on the last Day of Atonement. From 
the letter, it appears that Abiathar sends the people of Hebron financial 
support and mentions that he sent a dinar through a certain Samuel. Their 
situation is difficult, Saadia himself has been ill for the past two months, 
they lost an ass worth fifteen dinars on the way from Hebron to Ascalon, 
and they have nothing to wear nor bread to eat. 

A Catholic monk also wrote about the synagogue close to the graves of 
the patriarchs in 1119. After describing how the Jews helped the Muslims 
take Hebron (by showing them where it was possible to break into the 
town), on condition that they are permitted to build a synagogue at the 
entrance to the graves of the patriarchs, he adds that ‘it is impossible to 
describe in what reverence that people of unbelievers held the place; no one 
would enter it without taking off his shoes and washing his feet; that 
prayer-house was splendidly decorated, with gold and silver and silken 
fabrics. After many years the Almighty Creator and Saviour of the Uni¬ 
verse took that whole region from these unbelievers and gave it to the 
Latin Christians’. As in his story he speaks of both Muslims (the Saracens) 
andjews, it is not very clear to which of them the prayer-house refers, but 
in view of the claims of the Muslim sources that the ritual at the graves of 
the patriarchs only began after the Crusaders, as we have already seen, and 
in view of the explicit evidence of the letters from Hebron in the Geniza, 
we may assume that that Christian source was also speaking of the 
synagogue. It seems that the community in Hebron was liquidated not 
long after the above-mentioned letters and it is not clear whether it existed 
during the whole period between 1082 (the letter of Saadia the haver) and 
the Crusaders’ conquest of Jerusalem (when Hebron was also taken). We 
have found above that there was a large group of Jews from Hebron 
in Ascalon, but it seems that most of the Hebron community fled to 
Egypt, particularly to Bilbays, and we have letters from the Hebronite 
Abraham b. Saadia the haver, who became the head of the community in 
Bilbays, but who still maintained contact with the people of Hebron. He 

(after 1090), see: al-Munqidh, 75 (I am grateful to Prof. H. Lazarus-Yafeh for bringing this 

to my attention). Grave inscription: Repertoire chronologique, VI, no. 2078 (p. 37). 


207 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


occasionally speaks of‘the graves of the patriarchs’. We also have a letter 
from one of his relatives, Joseph b. Jacob b. Joseph ha-mumhe (specialist 
in law) ha-Hebronl b. Saadia ‘the haver in the Great Sanhedrin, the servant 
of the eternal fathers’. It seems that the Hebronites did not see eye to eye 
or live in complete harmony with other people. Tobiah ha-Kohen b. 
‘Eli, ofBaniyas, and also a refugee from Palestine, writes in around 1115, 
evidently from Bilbays, of the troubles inflicted on him by the people 
of Hebron - ‘wicked qawm yahiid khaliliym (Jewish people from 
Hebron). 8 ’ 

81 ‘Eli b. Ezekiel: 452, a, lines 3-6. Al-TahirtI: 458, b, line 10. Avon: 501, a, lines 15f; 503,a, 
lines 28f. The letters of Saadia, the haver of Hebron: 613; Yeshu'a b. Yakhin (Thabit), 
perhaps the son of Yakhin b. Nethanel ‘Head of the Communities’ (see some details on 
him: Gil, Documents, 214, n. 7); the story of the unclear scheming in this letter is perhaps 
connected with the Abiathar ha-Kohen - David b. Daniel conflict; it is obvious that Saadia 
was among the supporters of Abiathar and of the Nagid Mevorakh and it seems that the 
letter was written before thedeposal of the Nagid (1082); see on this conflict below. Saadia 
was evidently appointed haver by Abiathar, for in the following letter, 614,b, lines 6-7, 
17, he calls himself‘a plant of your hand’; see ibid., a, line 10, the matter of the prayers at 
the graves of the patriarchs; they also prayed for Abraham b. Halfon (b. Nahum), of 
Ascalon, who conducted business in Tyre and was in Abiathar’s circle; they prayed during 
‘the Day of Atonement in the Holy Cave’ (b, lines 12-13); it seems that part of the family 
had already left Hebron at that time, for on p. b, line 14, he mentions the ‘rumours about 
his mother and his sister’s daughter’ (evidently meaning that they had died in Egypt); in 
the letter there is also mention of the death of Abiathar’s brother, Eleazar. The story of the 
monk, see: RHC (Occ.), V, 309, 315; cf. Dinaburg (Dinur), Zion (ha-me’assef), 
2(1926/7), 55; Assaf, Meqdrot, 43. Prawer, Zion, 11(1945/6), 52f, tried to prove that the 
reference is to Muslims and not to Jews, for from the text of the Latin monk one learns 
only that in the seventh century (mistakenly printed: the sixth) ajewish community settled 
there, with a synagogue in the vicinity of the Cave of Machpelah. He learns from 617 that 
there was no longer a synagogue in the place at the end of the tenth century; but the letter 
617deals with matters concerning Bilbays and not Hebron, and its date is the beginning of 
the twelfth century, as will become clear below. The Hebronites in Ascalon: 595, a, line 9. 
There are four letters written by Abraham, son of the aforementioned Saadia the haver, of 
Bilbays: 615-618; evidently he did not return to Hebron from his journey to Egypt 
mentioned above; he had relatives in Egypt, one of whom was his son-in-law (or 
brother-in-law? sihr) Abu’l-Surur Perahia b. Bunaym, and the other: Moses ha-Kohen b. 
Ghalib (Ghulayb); it seems that the first lived in al-Qahira and the other in Fustat. In the 
first letter, of which only a small fragment has been preserved (615), the address of Moses 
ha-Kohen remains in the body of the letter he addresses Perahia; in the second letter (616), 
written before Passover to Moses ha-Kohen, the three sons of the latter are mentioned, 
Josiah, Saadia and Yeshu'a, and members of the family of Abraham b. Saadia himself: 
Abu’l-Husayn (probably ‘All), Abu Sa‘id, Umm Abi’l-Bayan (evidently Abraham’s 
mother), Bayan, Sittat (evidently Abraham’s daughter); the letter contains details on an 
epidemic of chicken-pox in Bilbays and some instances of the deaths of Hebronites there. 
Abraham b. Saadia evidently suffers from an eye disease and he asks for kuhl (antimony) to 
be sent him; an important personage (hadnttului al-samiya, probably the Nagid, who was a 
relative) visited Bilbays and had already left. The third letter, 617, is to Isaac b. Samuel the 
Spaniard, one of the leaders of the community in Fustat; we learn that the writer, Abraham 
b. Saadia the Hebronite haver, achieved the status of a kind of leader, muqaddam (appoin¬ 
tee) over the Bilbays community. In the meantime, apparently Moses ha-Kohen b. 
Ghulayb moved to Bilbays and bought a parcel of land from the local cadi, Harun. On that 
land, they intended to build a new synagogue and the letter contains a description of the 


208 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275 - 334 ] 


[316-317] Another town in the south of Palestine mentioned in our 
sources is ‘Aqlr, which is Akron, or ‘Aqir according to Muqaddasl. He 
describes it as a large village with a main mosque {jami ‘), and he praises its 

demolition of the old one and the building of the new, and particularly the difficulties they 
had with the Muslim authorities, after the cadi explained to them that one cannot build a 
(new) synagogue in the days of‘our Lord al-Afdal’ (the wazlr of Egypt). Nevertheless the 
community collected the money needed and continued to build despite the disturbances 
(from Jewish neighbours as well); the letter also contains complaints about the writer’s 
situation and financial distress. The community does not treat him as they should and do 
not give him any pesiqa (regular allocation). Assaf, Meqdrot, 45f, considered the letter as 
having been written in Hebron, and in Sefer ha-yishuv, 7, explained that the letter dates 
from the end of the tenth century, and his view was accepted by others as well; but it can be 
seen that Abraham b. Saadia the haver, who was a Hebronite, now lives in a new place; nor 
does it stand to reason that this whole affair would take place in the year between the 
re-conquest of Palestine by the Fatimids (July 1098; for al-Afdal, the Fatimid wazlr is 
mentioned) and the Crusaders’ conquest; Isaac, ‘the great Rabbi, resh be rabbanan ‘ezer 
ha-nesi’ut (‘head of the house of learning’, ‘aide of the exilarchate’) can only be Isaac b. 
Samuel the Spaniard, contrary to Assaf s opinion, ibid. Also in 553, a, line 20, Abiathar 
ha-Kohen Gaon calls him the ‘great Rabbi’; see on him: Mann, Tarbiz, 6(1934/5), 75f; 
idem. Texts , I, 388; Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 567, n. 29; his name is mentioned in 
the Geniza documents from 1088-1127. In this letter of Abraham b. Saadia (617) his two 
sons are mentioned (line 7). The fact that the writer is in Bilbays is also proved in the 
fragment of a letter 618, in which Abraham b. Saadia, the Hebronite haver, writes in the 
name of the Bilbays community, to Solomon b. Shelah (who is in Fustat, it seems); it is 
quite clear there that after he left Hebron, Saadia was given the status of leader in the 
community of Bilbays. As to Moses ha-Kohen b. Ghulayb, it appears that he too was a 
refugee from Hebron. One could not say with certainty that there was a family connection 
between him and Moses ha-Kohen b. Ghulayb, of Fustat, who died in 1026, and whose 
legacy matters are dealt with in 61 and 76, b, line 3. It is clear that Assafs explanations in 
Meqdrot, 44; Yerushalayim, 1952/3, 113, are mistaken. The idiom of the oath ‘by the graves 
of tbe patriarchs’ which we find in 616, b, line 1, is interesting - wa-turbat al-ha-avot(\). The 
letter ofjosephb. Jacob, the great-grandson ofSaadia the haver of Hebron: TS10J 10, f. 20 
(cited in Mann, Jews, II, 203); he writes to Shelah the cantor, ha-mumt}e (see above: 
Solomon b. Shelah, to whom Abraham b. Saadia writes) apparently in Fustat. The letter 
was evidently written in the latter half of the twelfth century. It deals with the burial of his 
brother, David, about whom there are rumours that he was not buried in a Jewish grave. 
The following is the geneaology of this Hebronite family: 



The letter of Tobiah ha-Kohen: TS 12.113. 


209 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


bread. 82 Of the cities of Samaria, Shechem is mentioned, a city of the 
Samaritans. According to Ya’qubI, writing in 892, it is an ancient city with 
‘two holy mountains’, and underneath the city there is a city hewn out of 
the rock. In his words, its inhabitants are mixed, including Arabs (= 
tribesman) and non-Muslims (‘ ajam ), namely Samaritans. Muqaddasl 
writes that Shechem excels in its olive groves. It is situated between two 
mountains which close in on it; its market stretches from gate to gate and 
there is another market in the centre of the town. It has a jami‘ in the town’s 
centre and is a clean city with paved roads. The Andalusian scholar Abu 
Bakr Ibn al-‘Arabi, who, as we have seen, stayed in Palestine in the 
nineties of the eleventh century, admires the modesty of the women in 
Shechem; one does not see them in the streets except on Friday when they 
go to and from the mosque. Shechem is mentioned occasionally in the 
Geniza documents pertaining to this book. It is told that Elijah ha-Kohen 
b. Solomon Gaon travelled there in ca. 1030, perhaps in order to evade the 
authorities, evidently at the time of the disturbances connected with the 
dispute with the Karaites. It was a junction for travellers to Jerusalem from 
Damascus. Daniel b. Azariah passed through Shechem on coming from 
Damascus, and thus did not have to go through Ramla. A merchant’s 
letter mentions that its writer stayed fi Baysan wa-Nabulus, that is in Bet 
Shean and Shechem. 83 

[318] Of the towns in Trans-Jordan, Muslim sources mention ‘Amman. 
Muqaddasl says that it lies on the edge of the desert and is the capital of 
al-Balqa’, and that the region is rich in grain. He notes that its jdmi‘ is 
situated alongside the market and that its courtyard is paved with mosaic. 
The fortress of Goliath ( qasrjaliit) looks down on it from the mountain and 
there is also the tomb of Uriah, over which a mosque has been erected. It 
also boasts of the theatre ( mal'ab ) of Sulayman (King Solomon). Muqad¬ 
dasl notes that the prices are low and the fruit plentiful, but he is dis¬ 
appointed by its inhabitants, who he says are people with no culture 
(juhhal). He also complains that the roads leading to the city are in a bad 
state. Abu Zakariyya’ Yuhanna (or Yahya) ibn Masawayh al-Jundl Sha- 
buri, a Nestorian writer of the latter half of the ninth century, mentions 
that in ‘Amman there is a market day annually on the 10th of August. 
There is apparently evidence of a Jewish population there in a letter from 
Solomon b. Judah, written in about 1020, to Abraham b. Sahlan in Fustat, 

82 Muqaddasl, Aqallm, 176. 

83 Istakhri, 58: city of the Samaritans ‘who claim that the temple is Nabulus, and the 
Samaritans have no other city on earth except that’ (undoubtedly a distortion of a tradition 
which said that it was the holy city of the Samaritans). Ibn Hawqal, 172: ‘the people of 
Bayt al-Maqdis [the intention is apparently Palestine] claim that all Samaritans come from 
there originally; [but] in Ramla there are some 500 of them who pay jizya’. Muqaddasl, 
Aqalim, 174. Ibn al-‘ArabI, Ahkam , 1523. Elijah ha-Kohen travelled there: 433, a, line 6 (i7« 


210 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275 - 334 ] 

in which he deals with the affairs of Isaac of Wadl’l-Qura (northern Hijaz) 
who was living in Fustat after having left his wife ‘as a living widow in 
‘Amman some four years ago’; this Isaac was a merchant and it appears 
from the letter that the mainstay of his trade was in ‘Amman. He deserved 
to be excommunicated ‘for his behaviour towards his household in ‘Am¬ 
man’ (Rabbat bene ‘ammoti). Solomon b. Judah mentions ‘Amman again in 
a letter he wrote on 19 December 1029 to someone in Fustat. It seems that 
he deals with the purchase of grain and the source of supply is ‘Amman. In 
the middle of the eleventh century, a Geniza letter mentions a Maghribi 
merchant, Abu Sa‘Td Khalfa, who was travelling to ‘Amman on business, 
evidently, or perhaps on family matters, for it is stated that he was the 
son-in-law of a man from ‘Amman: Yahya al-‘Ammani. 84 

[319-320] ‘Amta, which is east of the Jordan valley, is mentioned only 
by Yaqut, a relatively late writer, who says that the grave of Abu ‘Ubayda 
ibn al-Jarrah, one of the commanders of the Muslim conquest, is situated 
there. He cites MuhallabI in praise of the spices grown in that region. In 
two documents, in my Geniza collection, the Jerusalemite Mevasser ha- 
sofer (the scribe) son of Shelah ‘the teacher of the orphans’, al-‘Amtam, is 
mentioned, and one can discern from this that indeed there was a Jewish 
community in ‘Amta. In about 1030 the same Mevasser signs a letter from 
the people of Jerusalem to Fustat concerning assistance for the Jewish 
population of Jerusalem. In the year AM 4805, which is AD 1045, we find 
a deed of receipt from Jerusalem, signed by the Gaon Solomon b. Judah 
and Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon; the receipt is given by the same 
Mevasser b. Shelah al-‘AmtanI and his wife Ghaliya, daughter of Ashli- 
mun al-Dalati (= from Daltun), who is also called al-Baniyasiyya. 85 

Of the regions of Trans-Jordan, Ya'qub! mentions especially the areas 
of Fihl and Jarash and notes that Arabs, meaning tribesmen, and non- 
Arabs (' ajatn ) live there side-by-side. 86 

[321-327] On Bet-Shean, apart from being mentioned in the traditions 

nabulus). Daniel b. Azariah: 468, b, line 1. The merchant: 527, line 14 (but see the 
introduction to this document, it may be of a much later period). 

84 MuqaddasI, Aqdlnn, 175; Ibn Masawayh (Sbath), 255. The matter of Isaac: 58, a, lines 
20-24. The wheat: 83, b, lines 7-8. Abu SaTd Khalfa: 525, a, lines 18-19, and in the 
margin, line 6. A Fatimid commander is also mentioned; he was from 'Amman, al-amlr 
al-‘Ammani-see381, line 11 (a fragment from Daniel b. Azariah’s letter); it seems that the 
expression ‘may God pay him similarly to what he did’ which the Gaon adds after he 
mentions that same amir, is not necessarily in his favour; possibly the intention is to the 
governor of‘Amman. 

85 Yaqut, Buldan, III, 722; cf. Braslavi, Le-heqer, lOOf, who points out that ‘Amta is ‘Amtu, 
which is Hamatan in the Talmudic sources. The Jerusalemites’ letter: 405, see lines 24—25; 
The deed: 564, see lines 1-2, 13-14. 

86 Ya'qub!, Buldan, 327f; he mentions the region of the saw ad as well, but there seems to be 
some sort of distortion here, for sawdd means (in Ya'qubl’s time) district, and the name of 
the district is missing. 


211 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


of the conquest, as we have already seen, we have very little further 
knowledge. Ya‘qubl includes it among the regions with mixed popu¬ 
lations, tribesmen and non-Muslims. Muqaddasi mentions its abundant 
dates and the growing of rice, which is supplied to the two junds, Filastin 
and Urdunn. Its jdrni' is in the market place, and its people are righteous. In 
what has been said of Shechem above, we found that Bet-Shean was 
mentioned in a Geniza document, in a merchant’s letter. 87 

Kafr Kana is mentioned by Nasir Khusraw, who visited there in 1047; 
he recalls the beautiful monastery situated to the south of the village as well 
as its strong gate. Willibald, who visited it in ca. 725, points out the large 
church in the village, where one of the six jugs wherein Jesus turned the 
water into wine, is preserved. 88 

Arbel is also mentioned by Nasir Khusraw, who passed through it on 
his way from Acre to Tiberias. He says that he was shown there the graves 
of Joseph’s four brothers and the grave of‘Moses’ mother’. 89 

Gush Halav (Jashsh) was at the time still a comparatively large town. 
Muqaddasi says that the place looked almost like a qasaba, that is, the 
capital of a jund. In the Geniza sources, the town is mentioned in a letter 
written from there (from Gush) by Israel b. Nathan (Sahlun) in about 1060; 
the addressee is Nehorai b. Nissim, and from the contents of the letter it 
emerges that the writer stayed in the place and was busy copying books. 
Hence it appears that there was a Jewish population there. Joseph b. Sahl 
al-Baradanl, who writes at about the same time to Nehorai b. Nissim from 
Tyre, mentions that he passed through Gush on his way from Tiberias to 
Tyre and there he met Israel b. Sahlun, and it seems from his remarks that 
he found him in great distress. We know from other letters of Israel b. 
Sahlun that he moved from Gush Halav to Tyre and Damascus and from 
there returned to Jerusalem. 90 

87 Ya'qub!, ibid.; Muqaddasi, Aqalim 162, see another version there under note f. 

88 Nasir Khusraw, 18 (text), 59 (translation). Willibald, in Tobler et Molinier, I, 260. 

85 Nasir Khusraw, 16 (text), 53 (translation). TS 10 K 16, f. 20c, contains fragments from 
Josippon, and has, on the last line, the name of the writer: Shemaria b. Abraham, of 
blessed memory, from the city of Sepphoris; judging by the handwriting it appears to be 
from the eleventh century. (I am grateful to Dr Simon Hopkins, who brought this 
manuscript to my attention.) As to Sepphoris, one should also mention the colophon in 
Mann, Jews, II, 357: ‘[it has matters concerning] the cemetery, the sjddiiq ha-din [theodicy], 
and the funeral oration. Written by me, Yefet, the cantor, b. ‘Amram ha-mumhe, b. 
Moses, cantor and mumlfe [may they rest in Eden, the garden of God], known as b. 
al-Jazfini, from the city of Tirsa, called Safuriyya, the town of our holy Rabbi’ (that is R. 
Judah ha-nasi). The shelf-mark in Mann: TS 8 K 13, f. 14, was evidently mistaken. In the 
copy of Mann’s book in Cambridge, this is crossed out but no other shelf-mark was 
inserted; in other words, that particular colophon is still missing, and we have only 
Mann’s version. 

90 Muqaddasi, Aqalim, 163. The letter from Gush; 474. Joseph b. Sahl’s letter: 492. See also: 
al-hazan al-Jushi, in a list of names, apparently from the last quarter of the eleventh 
century, from Fustat: Bodl MS Heb c 28, f. 6, line 8, in Mann, Jews, II, 246. Braslavi’s 


212 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275 - 334 ] 


The town Daltun or Dalata, which I still have not found mentioned in 
any Arab source from the early Middle Ages, is mentioned in the ‘Scroll of 
Abiathar’. It says that it is the place where the father of Abiather, the Gaon 
Elijah ha-Kohen, is buried on top of the mountain, together ‘with R. Yose 
ha-Gelill, and around him Jonathan b. ‘Uziel, and Hillel, and Shammai, 
and Eleazar b. ‘Arakh, and Eleazar b. Azariah, his ancestor, and all the 
righteous’. In ca. 1030 Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph of Daltun writes a 
letter to Hillel the haver b. Yeshu'a the cantor, in Tiberias, dealing with 
the copying of books, which is his source of income. I have already 
mentioned above Ghaliya, daughter of Ashlimun al-Dalatx. The Karaite 
commentator Sahl b. Masllah mentions disparagingly (about the middle 
of the tenth century) the custom of the Rabbanites to visit the graves of the 
righteous; in Palestine they go to Dalata and to ‘Araba (and there they lay 
out their requests at the foot of the grave of R. Yose and R. so-and-so’). 91 

At the end of the ninth century, Ya'qub! mentions the kiira, that is the 
district, of Qadas, or Qedesh-Naphtali, which according to him is a very 
important one. Writing some hundred years later Muqaddas! notes that 
Qadas is a little town. He mentions the bathhouse there, th ejami' situated 
in the market-place and the manufacture of mats and ropes from which the 
inhabitants derived their income. He points out that many of them are 
dhimmls, and it is clear that he is referring to Jews. Qedesh is mentioned 
once in a letter written by Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph, of Daltun, who 
mentions that he sent there a quarter of a dinar. 92 

Farod (Faradhlya) is another Galilean town which gains Muqaddasl’s 
attention. According to him, it is a large village with a mosque (literally: 
seat of the preacher, minbar). Safed is not explicitly mentioned in the 
sources of the period. However, Musa b. Hiba (= Moses b. Nathan) b. 
Salmun al-Sefat! is mentioned in a draft of evidence written in September 
1034, relating to a transaction which took place in 1023 before a Muslim 
court. About this Musa, it says there that he is al-tiji al-yahudt, that is, a 
Jewish boy. On Thursday, the twelfth of Kislev, AM 4784 or 28 Novem¬ 
ber AD 1023, the marriage deed of Nathan ha-Kohen ha-Sefat! b. Solo¬ 
mon’s wife was written, evidently in Tyre. There is no doubt, therefore, 

doubts, Le-heqer, 63f as to the time of the list, do not seem to be founded. The letters of 
Israel b. Sahlun, see from 475 onwards. 

91 See Braslavi, Le-heqer, 66ff; 274f (on the synagogue in Daltun, in Byzantine times); 
313-318; the scroll of Abiathar: 559, b, lines 24—25; cf. Benjamin of Tudela (Asher) I, 45f: 
‘Meron .. . and there are the graves of Hillel and Shammai. ..; Qedesh Naphtali... and 
there is the grave of R. Eliezer b. ‘Arakh and R. Eleazar b. Azariah . . . and R. Yose 
ha-Gelili’; cf. the Adler ed. 29f: ‘ ‘Alma ... and there is the grave of R. Eleazar b. ‘Arakh’; 
see also in Heilprin, Seder Had. (Warsaw 1877), 54, 62. The letter from Daltun: 250, and see 
the discussion in Assaf, Meqordt, 38ff. See a fragment of the commentary of Sahl b. 
Masllalj to Exodus: MS. Firkovitch, II, No. 4129, in Mann, Texts, II, 87f. 

92 Ya'qubI, Bulddn, 327; MuqaddasI, Aqalim, 161. See mention of Qedesh in 250, a, line 12. 


213 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


that there was a Jewish community in Safed, but we have no further 
information on the subject. 93 

[328] Baniyas was considered the capital of the Golan and was also called 
madinat al-asbat (city of the tribes). According to Ya‘qubl, writing at the 
end of the ninth century, the majority of its inhabitants were of the Banu 
Murra (a tribe considered northern), but there was also a small number of 
‘southerners’ whose names he does not specify. It is quite possible that he 
copied this information from an older source, from the time of the 
Umayyads. According to Muqaddasi, Baniyas was a town lying between 
the Hula and the mountains and was the source of supplies for Damascus. 
It served as a haven for refugees from the coastal cities ‘when Tarsus was 
captured’, by which he undoubtedly meant the Byzantine conquest in the 
summer of 965, which I shall discuss below. These refugees were, in his 
words, a large part of the population of Baniyas, which was growing 
constantly. We may assume that these refugees were Jews and Muslims 
who fled from the Byzantine conqueror. The Geniza has preserved some 
details about Baniyas. We have already encountered Ghaliya, the daughter 
of Ashllmun, al-Baniyasfya; this certainly is evidence of a Jewish popu¬ 
lation there in the first half of the eleventh century. Naturally we cannot 
expect to find earlier evidence in the Geniza documents, for generally there 
was no special connection between Baniyas and Fustat as Baniyas was 
nearer to Damascus. Nevertheless, we find a letter dated 8 May 1041, 
written by Joseph b. Kulayb in Ramla to Nathan b. Abraham, who was 
then in Tyre apparently. Joseph b. Kulayb mentions ‘the son of the haver 
who is in Baniyas’, who reached Ramla and asked the followers of Nathan 
b. Abraham to grant him a title, even stating the title he desired - rosh 
ha-seder. It appears that Nathan b. Abraham visited Baniyas himself, or so 
‘the son of the haver’ seems to have claimed. We also have a power-of- 
attorney written in Baniyas, on the 6th ofTammuz, AM 4816 (11 July AD 
1056). Husayn b. Hillel, known by the name Qitos, gives Joseph b. 
Mahfuz (Mahfuz: evidently his Hebrew name was Shemaria) the right to 
act on his behalf and receive the dinar and three-quarters of a dinar owing 
to him from Jacob b. al-Jabban (the maker of cheese). The deed was made 
out in medmat dan ha-qeruya pamls (the city of Dan named Pamls) like the 
name of this town in Talmudic literature. Pamls is defined there as being 
di-shame'a le-damesseq, meaning ‘which is subordinate to Damascus’. On 
the deed and its validation (in a court of three) there are the signatures 

Cf. Braslavi, I.e-heqer, 69f; Braslavi did not heed the important sentence in Muqaddasi, 
that Qadas has many dhimmls. 

93 Muqaddasi, ibid., 162. The intention is to Talmudic Farod, see Avi-Yonah, Ge’ografya 
hlstorit, 143, and n. 5. At a later date, the grave of Nahum of Gamzu is mentioned; see 
Braslavi, Le-heqer, 216. Musa b. Hiba: 245, lines 5-6, 10; Nathan ha-Kohen: JNUL 
4°577.4, No. 98, ed. Friedman, Marriage, II, 38ff; see what he writes there, 34f, on Safed. 


214 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275 - 334 ] 

of seven local people. The last, Boaz the cantor b. David, we encounter 
three months later in Ramla, where he is one of the signatories (the 
signature is identical with that appearing in the aforementioned deed) in a 
power-of-attorney in the court of Daniel b. Azariah. 

From here onwards, we do not hear anything of Baniyas until the days 
of the Crusaders. In a letter sent (perhaps from Damascus) by Eleazer 
ha-Levi b. Joseph to Baniyas, to ‘Eli ha-Kohen the haver ha-me‘ulle b. 
Abraham (the father of Tobiah, whom we shall encounter below), he tells 
him about two brothers (one named Jacob) who succeeded in freeing 
themselves from captivity ‘in the hands of Ashkenaz’, that is from the 
Crusaders. The crux of the letter deals with a matter of divorce and 
mentions the acquiring of an unspecified object for the synagogue, evi¬ 
dently in Baniyas. The date of the letter is shortly after 1100, apparently. 

In the same period, we find two personalities from Baniyas in the 
Geniza, they are Tobiah ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli and his son-in-law, Nathan 
ha-Kohen b. Solomon. The latter was in Tyre in 1102, and there he signed 
a deed of alimony - an agreement made between Sitt al-Bayt and Hasan, 
her father-in-law, while her husband was not in the city. When some years 
later, the family emigrated to Egypt, the first of them was Tobiah. A letter 
has been preserved which he wrote to his father, ‘Eli ha-Kohen the haver, 
on 28 May 1112, about half a year after he arrived in Egypt, after travelling 
there by sea from Tyre on an exceedingly unpleasant voyage (which was 
understandable, considering that it was wintery weather, being Novem¬ 
ber or December). In the letter, he mentions ‘the two communities living 
in the fortress of Dan’ (that is, Baniyas), including the names of some 
Jewish personalities in Baniyas. Afterwards, Tobiah settled in Bilbays, 
where he stood at the head of the community, while Nathan, his son-in- 
law, settled in Fustat and became a judge there. We note then that the 
emigration from Baniyas took place in the second decade of the twelfth 
century and was perhaps linked with the attack and siege imposed by the 
Crusaders on Damascus in 1111, which ended unsuccessfully for the 
Crusaders but undoubtedly caused great panic among the Jews of Baniyas 
and probably their flight as well. In ‘the scroll of Obadiah the Proselyte’ 
there is information concerning a Karaite messianic movement, led by a 
‘messiah’ named Solomon ha-Kohen, whose disciples congregated in 
Baniyas in about 1120. Apparently Baniyas at that time was already 
untenanted by a permanent Jewish community. That same group of 
Karaites was possibly liquidated when Baniyas was taken by the Isma‘xlls — 
the hashlshiyya (the Assassins) - in 1126, led by Bahram. In September 
1129, Baniyas fell to the Crusaders. 94 

94 Ya‘qubI,Bu/dd«, 326; MuqaddasI, AqalJm, 160; Ibn al-Jawzi, Muntazam , IX, 69, mentions 

Baniyas, which in his words is a town in the Ghawr (the Jordan valley) where in 398 


215 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


[329] From the descriptions above, with the limited information pre¬ 
served on the towns in the Galilee, one gets an impression, though 
somewhat faded and fragmentary, of urban centres and villages which still 
retained their ancient character. The Jewish Galilean population still ex¬ 
isted in towns and villages, and it is certainly possible to draw a parallel 
with what we found in such places as Daltun, Qedesh, Dan (Baniyas), and 
other Galilean towns, records of which have not been preserved in the 
Geniza. In the period we are dealing with, the Muslim element, that is the 
tribesmen, was added to the Jewish population, and they are mentioned 
here and there. And then there were the Christians, of course, about 
whom we hear very little. To such questions as what the relative numbers 
of the three elements were, how they lived alongside one another, and 

(1007/8) Malik b. Ahmad al-BaniyasI, a collector of traditions, was born. (See ‘All ibn 
al-‘Imad, III, 376); he died in the great fire in Baghdad in 485 (1092); Ibn al-Athlr, Lubab, I, 
93, quotes Sam'ani and stresses that Baniyas does not belong tojund Filastln, nor to jund 
Urdunn, but tojund Dimashq. The term ‘city of the tribes’, see in Sam'ani, ibid. Son of the 
haver of Baniyas: 195, b, lines 11-16. The Deed: 609. Baniyas is Paneas (after the Greek 
god Pan), called Caesarea Paneas in the days of Herod and afterwards Caesarea Philippi 
after Herod’s son Philip. See Avi-Yonah, Ge’ograjya histbrit, 150. The name Qitos, 
obviously of Greek origin (608, line 4), perhaps confirms Muqaddasi’s remarks about the 
origins of the inhabitants of Baniyas from the coastal towns of Syria, where the tradition 
from Byzantine times was perhaps stronger, particularly in the sphere ofterms and names. 
The deed from the court of Daniel b. Azariah: 391, see lines 21, 27 (Boaz ha-hazan b. 
David). The two deeds 608 and 391 follow one another in the volume of Geniza docu¬ 
ments in the Taylor-Shechter collection (TS 13 J 1, fols. 13, 15) and possibly this is not 
entirely coincidental and they may have been at one time part of the archives of this Boaz 
ha-hazan. The letter to Baniyas: 609; Goitein, Eretz-Israel, 4(1955/6), 149, assumed that 
the Eleazar ha-Levi, writer of the letter, is the same as Eleazar ha-Levi b. Joseph to whom 
Manasseh b. R. Judah, ‘great-grandson of the Geonim’ (the great-grandson of Shemaiah 
Gaon) dedicated a piy yut. See Mann, Jews, II, 336, n. 2; one can recognise that this letter 
was sent to Baniyas by the names of the people mentioned there and also in the letter 
discussed below, 610; see notes to 609. The deed of Tyre: 606; Tobiah’s letter: 610; there 
are about a dozen of Tobiah’s letters in the Geniza, written when he was in Bilbays, 
generally to his son-in-law, Nathan. Nathan signed some thirty court documents in 
Fustat, some of them written in his own hand, until about the year 1150, see Goitein, 
Mediterranean Society, II, 513 (No. 17); see: BM Or 5536 IV, Nathan’s letter to Tobiah, 
from Fustat to Bilbays, from which it clearly emerges that Tobiah is Nathan’s father-in- 
law. ENA 4020, f. 28 is a letter from Tobiah to Nathan before he settled in Bilbays, while 
he was visiting communities in the Delta region; Bodl MS Heb d 74, f. 45 is also a letter 
from Tobiah, in which he mentions Shu‘a, i.e. Yeshu'a (the Baniyas!); the letter was 
written from Mallj and not from Palestine, as assumed by Braslavi, Le-heqer, 73, and 
Caesarea is not mentioned there, but in using the word qaysariyya, the reference is to the 
flax market; also the reading ‘Akko is not certain, and it seems that a certain al-‘AkkawI, 
i. e. a man of A ere, is being spoken of, and the writer mentions the refugees from Palestine, 
from Baniyas and Acre, living in Egypt. On the Crusaders’offensive in the year 1111, see 
Prawer, Ha-salvanim, I, 188. The scroll of Obadiah: ENA 3098, in Mann, Hatequfa, 
24(1927/8), 336, and see the discussion in the continuation; and in Golb, Goitein Jubilee 
Volume, 102f, and the discussion, ibid., 89f; Braslavi, Le-heqer, 73, mentions documents 
from the Geniza in which he believes Baniyas is mentioned, but the correct reading in these 
is Bunyam, as for instance Bunyam walad (— son of) Abu Nasr in TS 8J 21, f. 15; Bunyam is 
none other than Benjamin (cf. Goitein, Letters, 235, n. 14), a name found in many other 


216 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275 - 334 ] 


what was their source oflivelihood, we have no unambivalent answers. 
The Jewish communities in these localities were evidently gradually 
wiped out during the Fatimid wars in Palestine, and the final blows 
inflicted by the Turcomans who invaded Palestine and their successors, 
the Crusaders. One becomes aware of the branching out of the Galilean 
Jewish population also from the locative by-names of the Palestinian 
refugees and their descendants mentioned in various lists preserved in the 
Cairo Geniza. An instance of such a by-name we find in 1065: Abraham b. 
David al-Kafrmandl, recorded in a deed of attorney drawn up in Ramla by 
the Gaon Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon; the intention is to Kafr Manda in 
the Lower Galilee. This man became an inhabitant of Ramla, as one can 
assume from the formulation of the deed. Evidently, we have here some 
evidence of the exodus from the towns and villages to the urban centres. 
People from Gush Halav are mentioned a number of times in the lists from 
Fustat, such as Da’ud b. Hasan al-Jashshl al-Kohen, and others; and there 
are also al-Dalatl, ‘the man from Daltun’, the by-name of Abu’l-Hasan 
al-Nahhal (the beekeeper); al-I‘billam, ‘the man of 1‘billln; al-Tabaranl, 
people of Tiberias; al-‘AmqawI, of‘Amuqa, near Safed; and also people of 
Acre and Haifa. 95 

[330] I should also mention certain localities in the coastal area. Caesarea 
declined in the period we are discussing. MuqaddasI describes only general 
aspects and he mentions the citadel which encompasses the over-popu¬ 
lated residential areas, as well as its beautiful jami‘. Nasir Khusraw visited 
Caesarea some two generations after MuqaddasI, in 1047. He adds little to 
the description of his predecessor, apart from information on a lovely 
marble vessel preserved in the jami‘, which looks as if it was made of 
Chinese porcelain and can hold 100 mantis (approximately 90 litres). In the 
Geniza documents, Caesarea is sometimes called Hasdr (also Haserfya, in 
poetry). There is a letter in the Geniza from the yeshiva to the community 
of Hasor dealing with a dispute over the prayer routine in the synagogue, 

Geniza documents. Baniyas in the hands of the Assassins and Crusaders, see Lewis, in A 
History of the Crusades (ed. Setton), 116f; cf. also Prawer, Ha-salvantm, I, 218f. 

95 Abraham b. David al-Kafrmandl: 425; cf. Braslavi, Le-heqer, 169. Gush Halav: Goitein, 
Mediterranean Society, II, 440 (Nos. 4—5), Ashtor, Shazar Jubilee Volume, 495. Al-Dalatl: 
ibid., 496; see also Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 467 (No. 108); al-Pbillanl, see: Mansur 
b. Joseph al-Pbillanl, in 280, lines 3-4, 14; see also in Ashtor, ibid., 497. See on Pbillin: Le 
Strange, Palestine, 382, following Nasir Khusraw: it is close to Damun and the prophets 
Hud and ‘Uzayr are buried there. See further mention of I'billln (people called al-Pbillani) 
in Friedman, Marriage, II, 284. Tiberias: Ashtor, ibid., 499. And see the lists printed by him 
in the supplement, ibid., 501-509. There is some doubt as to the identification of‘Ananl as 
the man from Kfar Hananya as in Braslavi, ibid. ,78. It is more likely that he was a follower 
of’Anan, i.e. he was a Karaite; al-‘AmqawI: Bodl MS Heb c 28, f. 6 (from the latter half of 
the eleventh century), line 14, in Mann, Jews, II, 246. See the proposed correction 
(al-'Amqaw! and not al-‘AsqawI as in Mann’s reading) in Braslavi, ibid., 71. See also the 
locative ha-Gellll, the letter written bv Yeshu'a ha-Kohen b. Abraham ha-Gelffi, 201 (ca. 
1010 ). 


217 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


apparently dated 1025. The letter is addressed to ‘the entire holy com¬ 
munity living in the fortress of Hasor’ and several personalities are men¬ 
tioned there, among them a certain son of Halfon of Ramla, and also the 
‘head of the community’ and the cantor, and a man namedjoseph, entitled 
‘beloved of the yeshiva’. The term ‘fortress of Hasor’ reminds us of what 
MuqaddasI and Nasir Khusraw had to say on the fortress and walls. In 
June 1053 one of the Maghribi merchants, Moses b. Jacob, makes mention 
in a letter sent from Jerusalem to Nehorai b. Nisim, ofSedaqa al-Qays- 
aranl (of Caesarea), who lived in Jerusalem. The synagogue of Caesarea is 
mentioned in a letter from another Maghribi, Jacob b. Salman al-Harirl 
(‘silk merchant’) who writes from Ramla, also to Nehorai b. Nissim, in 
about 1060. The ship in which Jacob sailed, and whose destination was 
Jaffa, was almost wrecked near the coast of Caesarea and he was obliged to 
remain in Caesarea. As he did not find a place to stay there, he remained in 
the synagogue for five days, and only afterwards reached Ramla. Caesarea 
(Qaysarin) is mentioned in the ‘Scroll of Abiathar’, as one of the cities that 
was dominated by David b. Daniel, during the early nineties of the 
eleventh century. In around 1099 the haver of Caesarea, Joshua b. ‘Eli, the 
great-grandson of Samuel ‘the third’ b. Hosha'na, wrote to the Nagid of 
Egypt, Mevorakh b. Saadia, stating that the Jews of the city are ‘drowning 
in sorrows’ due to ‘poverty and constant fear’; ‘our souls are in fear and 
trembling from too many rumours’, he says. He asks the Nagid to send a 
letter of recommendation to the local cadi to help him to move to Ascalon, 
‘for it is better fortified and maintained than Hasor’, and the intention is 
that the cadi should speak ‘to the governing peha (governor) there (in 
Hasor) that he should not force nor detain me’. In addition to the constant 
dread, he also suffers from the local population, who ‘are not good for 
anything and they do not bring me [any income] but anguish’. 96 


% MuqaddasI, Aqalim , 174; Nasir Khusraw, 18 (text), 61f (translation); he also stresses the 
strength of the city walls and mentions its iron gate; on the matin, see Hinz, 16. A. 
Reifenberg, Caesarea, IEJ, 1(1950/1), 23, interprets MuqaddasI inaccurately, as ifit were a 
matter of a densely-populated suburb situated outside the town; but rabad in MuqaddasI 
means the unfortified part of the city. On p. 29, Reifenberg points out that while 
MuqaddasI only refers to wells and reservoirs, Nasir Khusraw mentions that the city’s 
water also came via watercourses, and from this he assumes that during the intervening 
period between the lives of the two, the more ancient lower conduit may have been 
repaired. The letter to the community of Hasor: 48. Moses b. Jacob, see 460, a, line 7. 
Jacob b. Salman: 507, a, lines 3-8. The scroll of Abiathar: 559, c, line 18. Joshua he-haver’s 
letter: 569, his signature: Joshua he-haver b. R, ‘Eli he-haver, great-grandson of Hosha’na: 
this Joshua signs a marriage deed in 1051, in Ramla: Joshua ha-hazan b. R. ‘Eli he-haver, 
see 566, line 20; in 1076 he signed a deed contracted in Ramla: Joshua he-haver b. R. ‘Eli 
he-haver, see 568, line 11; it is clear that he is the son of‘Eli b. Abraham b. Samuel (‘the 
third’) b. Hosha'na. ENA NS 16, f. 6, a small fragment remaining from a marriage deed, 
contains the version: ‘Hasor, which is situated on the coast of the Salty Sea’, see in 
Friedman, Marriage, II, 317f. Here too, Hasor is Caesarea, on the coast of the ‘Salty Sea’, 


218 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275 - 334 ] 


[331] Jaffa (which is Yafa or Yafa) was not very developed in our period. 
Ya'qubi notes only that it was a transit stop of Ramla, in other words, the 
port of jund Filastan. MuqaddasI only mentions that it was a small town, 
but a place for conveying goods abroad and the port of Ramla and jund 
Filastln. He mentions its strong fortress, its iron-clad gates, its sea-gate 
wholly wrought of iron, and its convenient port. He also mentions the 
jami', which overlooks the sea. Evidently in 1064, the port of Jaffa is 
mentioned by Ingulph, prior of the Croyland monastery in England. A 
fleet of ships from Genoa arrived there in the spring; he sailed back to 
Europe in one of them. In the Geniza documents, Jaffa is mentioned much 
less frequently than Ascalon or Tyre, although the Maghribi merchants, 
from whom most of the information on the ports of Palestine is derived, 
would visit Jaffa as well. Abraham b. David b. Sughmar, writing evi¬ 
dently in 1038, from Fustat to Jerusalem, mentions that Jaffa was one of 
the cities to which letters dealing with the conflict of Nathan b. Abraham 
were dispatched, and from this it is clear that there was a Jewish com¬ 
munity there. The Karaite Mahbub b. Nissim depicts a journey in Pal¬ 
estine on his way to Ladhiqiyya (Laodicea). At the end of the month of 
Tishri, he decided to stop in Jaffa and therefore he bribed the captain of the 
ship to drop anchor there: ’. .. and I wentdown injaffa’ (wa-nazalt al-yafa). 
In a letter written by ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel in Jerusalem in April 1071, 
he warns his son-in-law not to import flax viajaffa but rather via Ascalon, 
for injaffa the authorities seize the goods being imported for the Fatimid 
army’s benefit. In about 1060 Jacob b. Samuel ha-AndalusI ofjerusalem 
writes to Nehorai b. Nissim that he carried a cargo of oil to Jaffa (ila yafa), 
evidently for export to Egypt. Jacob b. Salman al-Harirf, as well, wrote at 
approximately the same time to Nehorai; he wrote from Ramla, and I have 

which is the Mediterranean. While Mann, Jews, II, 200, wrote that he could not identify 
the site of Hasor, the idea that Hasor is Rafiah has become accepted (see, for instance Sejer 
ha-yishuv, 9); but we have the evidence of Tanhum ha-Yerushalmi that Hasor was 
Caesarea; see his commentary on the book of Joshua, 27; ‘Hasor, which is Caesarea’; see 
also al-Harlzi, Tahk., ch. xx, p. 206 ‘and from Tyre to Hasor’; and also ch. xxxvii, p. 299: 
‘I went from Tyre until Hasor with a group’, the intention here undoubtedly being: from 
Tyre to Caesarea (cited in Mann, ibid.). Benjamin of Tudela (Adler ed.), 32, says: ‘and 
from there (that is, from Hamma, which is Hammah) there is half a day to Shayza, which 
is Hasor’. Clearly he is speaking of Shayzar, which is Larisa, which was also referred to as 
Caesarea. See William of Tyre, 481: (urbs)quae vulgo appellatur Caesarea, and ibid., p. 849, it 
is called Caesara and not Caesarea; and on p. 1013: Caesar, quae vulgo dicitur Caesarea tnagna; 
it is clear that the Arabic Shayzar is but a distortion of the ancient name. See doubts about 
this in Dussaud, Topographie, 199f. Dussaud dismissed the opinion of William of Tyre and 
quoted what Stephen of Byzantium said, that the ancient name of Shayzar was Sizara, as a 
counter-argument; and in his wake, Ben Horin as well, Kiryat Sefer, 24(1947/8), 112; but it 
is quite obvious that Sizara is also a distortion of Caesarea; Benjamin of Tudela confirms 
the version of William of Tyre, on the one hand. While on the other hand there is 
confirmation here that it was common among the Jews to refer to Caesarea as Hasor (and 
as is known, there were a number of cities called Caesarea); cf. Vilnay, Zion, 5 (1940), 84, 


219 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


already described the venture when he was forced to stop in Caesarea, 
when his intention was to reach Jaffa and thence to Ramla. Clear evidence 
of the existence of a Jewish community in Jaffa even in the troubled days of 
the Turcoman rule in Palestine is to be found in a deed of divorce written in 
Jaffa on the 18th of Sivan AM 4837 (12 June AD 1077): Yefet b. Abraham 
divorces Sitt al-Husn daughter of Abraham, and it has two witness’ 
signatories, Yefet the cantor b. Abraham (in whose handwriting the 
document is written) and Aaron b. Mevorakh. The deed was written ‘in 
the city of Jaffa, which is situated on the Great Sea, in the portion of the 
tribe of Dan’. 97 

[332] Muqaddasi also mentions Arsuf (Apollonia), which according to 
him is smaller than Jaffa, but well fortified and densely populated. In its 
mosque there is a handsome minbar which was originally intended for 
Ramla but was afterwards thought too small and was moved to Arsuf. He 
also mentions Kafrsaba and notes the jami‘ there; and also Kafrsalam in the 
neighbourhood of Caesarea, which also had a jami‘. 9S 

[333] The Islamisation of the population is a question which is rather 
obscure. As I have already said, the impression gained from the sources is 

who has further evidence based on a map of Palestine attached to the MS of Moses Basola 
(1552). 

97 Ya'qubI, Buldan, 329; Muqaddasi, AqalTm, 174. See Ingulph, 149; quoted also in Ashtor, 
Shazar Jubilee Volume, 490f, copied from Schaube. As to the chronicle of Ingulph, which 1 
also mention in connection with the Jerusalem patriarch, Sophronius II (infra sec. 699) and 
the pilgrimage of the Gunther group ( infra sec. 726), one cannot say it is a fake, though one 
can perhaps call it ‘pseudo-Ingulph’. Although, according to students of British history, 
this is a compilation from the middle of the fourteenth century evidently, they still do not 
hesitate to call it the chronicle of Ingulph. Essential claims of forgery were directed 
towards the texts of charters which are included there, but these do not affect our subject. 
Searle, who studied the chronicle thoroughly, remarked that it contained ‘some curious 
points of accuracy’. Ingulph, himself, is not an invented character and he was actually the 
prior of a monastery, and also made a pilgrimage to Jerusalem. It seems, then, that in 
precisely those matters related to his biography, which I have mentioned, the information 
is genuine, and one can assume that it was copied from an earlier chronicle, truly written 
by Ingulph, and included in that compilation. At any rate, by whatever name we call it, the 
use of this source is certainly legitimate. See Liebermann, 25, 33; Searle, 11, 137; 192f, 195; 
206ff, 208. Ashtor also relied on this chronicle in what he wrote on the coastal towns of 
Syria and Palestine and he calls it; a Latin treatise written in about the year 1085, and 
mentions naturally, Ingulph’s pilgrimage ( Shazar Jubilee Volume, pp. 490f). True, there 
are sometimes contradictions in biographical data, such as that Ingulph met the emperor 
Alexius (Comnenus), who reigned from 1080-1118 in Constantinople. The Jerusalem 
patriarch Sophronius II, however, was in office when Ingulph was in Palestine (contrary 
to Searle’s assumption, p. 137). The letter of Abraham b. David b. Sughmar: 190, a, line 
10. Mahbub, 292, line 12, ‘Eli ha-Kohen: 455, lines 26-28. Jacob b. Samuel; 493, line 9. 
Jacob b. Salman: 507, a, line 3. The divorce: see MS Mosseri, VIII.482, edited by Semah, 
Mizrah u-ma'arav, 1(1920), 358, and copied from there in Sefer ha-yishuv, 15, and in 
Margaliot, Hilekhot eres isra’el, 122. It seems that Jaffa was then in Fatimid hands. 

98 Arsuf: Muqaddasi, AqalTm, 174, cf. Avi-Yonah Ge’ogrdjya historit 128. Kafrsaba, Kafrsa¬ 
lam: Muqaddasi, ibid., 176f; cf. Nasir Khusraw, 18 (text), 62 (translation) according 
to whom these are two names of the same place. To the survey of the localities one 


220 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275 - 334 ] 


that during the period under discussion the Muslims were in a minority. 
The Muslim element was made up of tribesmen, and in the course of time, 
immigrants and settlers who came from abroad, even from distant lands, 
such as the family of the mother of Muqaddasi, author of the Aqalm, who 
came from the region of Qumis in Central Asia. Below we shall encounter 
other famous Muslim personalities who lived in Palestine, and whose 
origins were in other countries (and we have already seen, there were such 
personalities even during the rule of the Umayyads, such as ‘Ata’ al- 
Khurasani). However, one can assume that there was also a degree of 
Islamisation, especially among that segment of the population whose 
communal organisation was weak and in which the individual could not 
withstand the pressure and enticements of the Muslim world. This is 
probably true particularly with regard to the Christian population, 
especially in the small rural localities. At the time of al-Hakim there was 
forced conversion among the Christians, and although these decrees were 
later abolished, one may assume that a part of those forced converts were 
lost to Christianity. 

The Christian population in Palestine was in the main Monophysitic. 
To a large extent due to the fanatical religious policy of the emperors, the 
Christians became submissive and came to terms with their fate, as it 
were, to live under the rule of the Muslim tribes. As will be evident below, 
the rulers did not conduct a policy of religious coercion, and their principal 
demand from the population was the payment of taxes. Only at a later 
stage did the animosity between the Christians and the Muslims become 
acute. Christian sources in the first century of Islam reflect a liberal attitude 
towards the Muslims. An anonymous Spanish chronicle which covers the 
period until 741, has no expressions of animosity to Islam when it is 
mentioned there. Ishu'yhab III, the Nestorian catholicus, writes in about 
660 that there is no point in converting to Islam, for the Muslims them¬ 
selves revere the church. An anonymous Nestorian chronicle also reflects 
the positive attitude to the Arabs and Muhammad, the ‘Messenger of 
God’. Among the Christians, especially the sects which branched out 
from the main church, there was the belief that the appearance of ad¬ 
ditional prophets during the Christian era was still a possibility - prophets 
who would be sent to nations who had not risen to the heights of Chris¬ 
tianity, which is how they viewed Muhammad. The nature of Islam, 
which absolutely negates certain basic Christian views, was not clear even 
to the learned among the Christians at first, and they were inclined to see 


must also add Ono, mentioned in a fragment of a deed written on vellum: TS NS 320.99, 
edited by Friedman, Yarqott, 81. See its facsimile ibid ., p. 80. Judging by the script, it seems 
to be one of the most ancient Geniza documents, perhaps from the tenth century. 


221 



THE LOCAL POPULATION AND THE MUSLIMS 


Islam as another defecting Christian sect, as was the view of John of 
Damascus, for instance. Naturally in the course of time, not a few heated 
situations arose, as we shall see, and pressure was put on the Christians. 
Nevertheless, apart from the days of al-Hakim, we have no explicit 
evidence of mass conversion of Christians to Islam." 

[334] Similarly, we have no evidence of Jews converting to Islam, 
except for a passage in Dhahabi, who claims that in the days of Mu'awiya, 
under the influence of Ka‘b al-Ahbar, forty-two Jewish scholars ( ahbar) 
turned to Islam, and Mu'awiya gave them grants and subsidies. This 
information, which is not found elsewhere, has a fictional character and 
seems to have derived from a distortion of the traditions on the Jewish 
services on the Temple Mount. Even if it has a grain of truth, it is still no 
proof of mass conversion among the Jews of Palestine. The validity of the 
opinion common here and there concerning thejewish origin of the Arabs 
of Palestine is dependent onjust such a conversion. At the beginning of the 
twentieth century, Ben Gurion and Ben Zvi tried to provide some foun¬ 
dation for this idea by claiming that because of the pressing tax burden, the 
population of Palestine, which was to a large extent Christian, had con¬ 
verted to Islam. They cited as evidence the fact that at the time of the Arab 
conquest, the population of Palestine was mainly Christian, and that 
during the Crusaders’ conquest some four hundred years later, it was 
mainly Muslim. As neither the Byzantines nor the Muslims carried out 
any large-scale population resettlement projects, the Christians were the 
offspring of thejewish and Samaritan farmers who converted to Chris¬ 
tianity in the Byzantine period; while the Muslim fellaheen in Palestine in 
modern times are descendants of those Christians who were the descend¬ 
ants ofjews, and had turned to Islam before the Crusaders’ conquest. The 
scholar A. N. Poliak attempted to find evidence of such a mass conversion 
of the Jews of Palestine in the commentary of Saadia Gaon to the book of 
Daniel, xi:30-31 (‘and have intelligence with them that forsake the holy 
covenant, etc. ’): ‘these are the Ishmaelites injerusalem, and thereafter they 
desecrated the sanctuary of strength’; and further on, verse xi:36 (’. . . and 
shall speak . . . things against the God of gods . . .’): ‘words which would 
anger the King of the Worlds, until His rage against Israel will cease; and 
then the Creator will completely destroy the wicked of Israel’; and further: 
xii:2 (‘and many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake’): 
‘this is the resurrection of the dead of Israel, whose fate is to live forever, 
and those who will not be resurrected are those who deserted God; they 
99 The Spanish chronicle: Dubeer, Andatus, 11(1946), 300f; cf. Cahen, RHR, 166(1964), 54; 
see Yeshu'yhav’s letter to Simon, bishop of Rewardashir: in CSCO, ser. II, t. 64, 251 (see 
its Latin translation, ibid., 181); cf. Cahen, ibid., 55. The Nestorian chronicle: CSCO, t, 4, 
31. Michael the Syrian also finds it advantageous to be free of Byzantine tyranny; see the 
Chabot ed., II, 413, cf. Cahen, ibid., 56f. 


222 



THE POPULATION AND LOCALITIES [SECS. 275 - 334 ] 


will descend to the bottom of Hell and every living creature will curse 
them’. And further: ii:43 (. .. they shall mingle themselves with the seed of 
men’. ..) ‘since people of the seed of Israel intermingle with them (i.e. 
with the Muslims) and stay with them, just like the Persians and Zo- 
roastrians and pagans of several types; but they do not stick to each other, 
just as iron and smith do not mix so as to become one and the same tool’. 

Such quotations cannot serve as sources for the history of Palestine, 
with which they have nothing to do. They bear absolutely no proof of the 
Islamisation ofjews in Palestine. From the last passage one may deduce, if 
anything, quite the contrary. 100 

100 See DhahabI, Ta’rlkh, III, 101; D. Ben-Gurion and I. Ben-Zvi, Eretz Israel in Fergangen- 
hait. . ., NY 1907/8. 43; Poliak, Molad, 24:297, 1966/68. See the convincing counter¬ 
arguments of Brawer, ibid ., 424; but he also has a statement that is insufficiently based: 
‘when the Muslims conquered Palestine in 636, the Jews carried no political or demo- 
graphical weight there’; see further comments by Poliak, ibid., 427tf. 


223 



4 

The economy 


[335] In the Arab sources and in the sources in general, information about 
the economy of Palestine during the centuries from the conquest until the 
eleventh century AD is very sparse. The little that is known is mainly 
derived from the Muslim geographers, first and foremost among them 
being MuqaddasI, who was himself a Palestinian from Jerusalem. 
However, there are dozens of letters from the Cairo Geniza, mostly from 
Maghribi merchants, which contain a wealth of detail concerning the 
economy and trade in the eleventh century AD. Within the context of the 
historical sources of the period, the details contained in these letters are 
unique and also extremely valuable for the study of the economic life of the 
Middle Ages. 

Despite the close connections between Palestine and the neighbouring 
countries and its political dependence upon them - firstly on Syria and 
later on Egypt - Palestine was a relatively self-contained economic unit at 
the time. Palestine’s wealth came from its natural resources, especially its 
excellent crop of fruits and also, as we shall see, from the various types of 
craftsmanship that developed there, from its network of ports and not a 
little, from its influx of pilgrims. 


Land and agriculture 

We have little knowledge concerning the ownership of land during this 
period. I have already reviewed the available information about estates 
belonging to the Umayyad rulers and their immediate circle. We have seen 
that the tribes, when the Muslim conquest opened up Palestine to them, 
lived off the local populations by collecting taxes directly from whatever 
area they occupied, naturally allotting a certain portion to the central 
authority. These areas were called ma’kala. This did not imply, as a matter 
of course, that the tribe was given the rights of ownership to the land. 
Those estates {day'a, pi. diya ‘), which according to the sources were held 
by different rulers at different times, were apparently the property of the 


224 



LAND AND AGRICULTURE [SECS. 335-338] 

state or of the rulers, even prior to the Muslim era, or were the property of 
public institutions, such as the Church. 

After the Abbasid revolution, it was the army commanders, generally 
Turks, who enjoyed the privileges formerly held by the tribes during the 
Umayyad period. Discernible changes occurred in the use of terms; we 
find instead of ma ’kata the iqta '. Essentially we are still speaking of the right 
to collect land taxes that were intended to maintain the military unit under 
the command of the holder of the iqta'. With regard to Palestine, these 
tights are mentioned in the sources, especially during the period of the 
Fatimid wars, and they were a contested issue among the Banu Jarra^i and 
the Arab leaders in Palestine, as well as others, during that period. We shall 
also encounter in this chapter the episode of the seven villages or estates 
(i diya‘) which the Fatimid caliph al-Hakim gave to the rulers of Aleppo in 
ard Filastin, and there is little doubt that this meant the right to collect taxes 
from the inhabitants. Tobiah b. Moses states with a touch of pride, in one 
of his letters, that he is in charge of the estates of the Fatimid rulers (waktl 
li-diya‘ al-sultan) in Palestine. One cannot know in this instance whether he 
is speaking of the estates of the central government or of the (Turkish) 
army commander, but at any rate it seems that here too, the collection of 
taxes is intended. 

Although things are not explicitly stated, as I have already mentioned, 
we can understand the situation in Palestine from what we know in 
general about the iqta ' system. As Cahen has shown in his studies on this 
subject, it was basically a method of allocating the income from the taxes. 
Only at a later stage, under the Ayyubids, does one hear of the rulers 
dispossessing farmers of their property rights and turning them gradually 
into tenants. 

Through the Geniza documents, we know that the non-Muslim popu¬ 
lation maintained the right to own land during all the generations from the 
time of the conquest until the eleventh century. We also have evidence of 
houses which were the property of local inhabitants, and one can assume 
that the inhabitants owned the land on which the houses stood as well. In a 
deed from the Geniza, we find a certain Mu’ammala giving her husband 
Mevasser b. Sahlan b. Shelah al-‘AmtanI ‘all my lands in the city of Ramla 
which is near Lod’ (ca. 1030). In one of his letters written about the same 
time, the Gaon Solomon b. Judah mentions the case of a man who ‘sold a 
field inherited from his parents’. Also about the same time, mention is 
made in a fragment of a letter from the court in Tiberias to the court in 
Fustat, of evidence about a legacy due to the daughters of Hillel b. Nissin, 
and the witnesses were questioned ‘about the fields’. In a fragment of a 
marriage deed from Tyre, from the end of the eleventh century, a bride is 


225 



THE ECONOMY 


mentioned who owns property and is part-owner of a third of a new house 
in western Tyre, evidently in the vicinity of the port. 1 

[336] Palestine seems to have been self-sufficient in grains and bread - at 
any rate, there is no evidence in the sources of any import of wheat. The 
Gaon Solomon b. Judah, at the end of 1029, enquires about buying wheat 
from ‘Amman in Trans-Jordan. We find wheat-trading in Palestine men¬ 
tioned in a letter from Avon b. Sedaqa to Nehorai b. Nissim in around 
1065. In another letter, he tells of the purchase of wheat in the Hebron area 
and in Jerusalem itself; wheat which is ‘real gold’, as he puts it. Jacob b. 
Salman al-Hariri, preparing to sail from Tripoli to Tyre, transports wheat 
(but his voyage is disastrous and he ends up in Caesarea minus his entire 
cargo), and he also shipped wheat to Fustat. 2 

[337] Al-Muqaddasi enumerates in great detail those fruits for which 
Palestine was noted. He particularly stresses the etrog, almonds, dates 
( ratab , fresh dates), nuts, figs and bananas. Elsewhere he lists olive oil, 
dried figs, the raisins of‘Aynun and Dur, apples, cherries, indigo plants 
from Jericho and Bet Shean, the dates of Zoar and Bet Shean, the almonds 
of Moab and the rice from Bet Shean. In Trans-Jordan, they excelled in the 
cultivation of wheat, sheep-farming and the production of honey. Further 
on, he points to thirty-six products grown in the FilastTn district ( kiira ) 
which are not to be found growing together elsewhere, seven of which are 
rare in any other area and twenty-two of which are not found together in 
any other area (these are his comments and it is difficult to understand him 
completely, though perhaps there is an error in the text); he further 
recounts the various types of nuts, apples, raisins, plums, figs, sycamore 
fruit, carobs, olives, dates, shaddock ( utrujj, etrog), indigo, sugar-cane, 
jujube fruit, mandrake, sumach, lupin, and so on. 

Bakri, in the latter half of the eleventh century, praises Bet Shean in 
particular on its good wine and its dates. IdrisI, writing in 1154, compli¬ 
ments the dates of al-Darum (his form: al-Dara), Zoar, Jericho and the 
entire Jordan Valley. Grapes are mentioned in a letter from Avon b. 
Sedaqa, from Jerusalem to Nehorai b. Nissim; he and his partners had 
prepared grapes for the pilgrims (evidently to sell them) and each one 

1 See Cahen, AESC, 8:25, 1953; JESHO, 15:163, 1972, and his articles in EP: Day‘a; Iqta‘; 
see also Duri, Abhdth, 3:22, 1969, an article which deals with the early development of the 
iqta‘. See below (section 585) the matter of the tax officials of al-Dizbiri, the Fatimid army 
commander, who wanted to collect taxes in the iqta' of Hassan thejarrahid; and the matter 
of the iqta'dt, which the head of the Banu Kalb, Rafi‘ b. Abi’l-Layl b. ‘Ulayyan, wanted to 
keep for himself (sec. 592). Mu’ammala: 216 ; Solomon b. Judah: 75 , b, line 30; the letter 
from Tiberias: 244 ; the Tyre marriage deeds: 601 . 

2 Solomon b. Judah: 83 . Avon: 501 , a, lines 15-16, 20; 503 . Jacob b. Salman: 506 , a, lines 8. 9; 
507 , b. lines 1,7. It appears that the supply of wheat in Egypt was much more problematic 
than it was in Palestine; Israel b. Nathan in his letters to Nehorai b. Nissim, enquires about 
the price of wheat in Fustat, see 469 , a, line 21; 478 , b, line 4; Nissim b. Halfon, also writing 


226 



LAND AND AGRICULTURE [SECS. 335 - 338 ] 


invested five dinars. A shipment of figs to Alexandria is mentioned by 
Jacob b. Salman al-Hariri, writing to Nehorai from Tripoli in Syria. Nasir 
Khusraw also mentions at the very same time the excellent figs of Ramla 
(he means jund Filastin), which were being exported far and wide. From 
another letter, it appears that one of the reasons for the same Jacob b. 
Salman’s going to Palestine was to purchase fruits for exporting to Egypt. 
A fruit product mentioned in the Geniza documents is rose-petal preserves 
— mentioned by Musa b. Ya'qub in some of his letters written in 1057- 
1058. A shipment of these preserves was apparently sent via Tyre and the 
writer is anxious as it had not yet reached Fustat - and when it finally 
arrives, he is again concerned as to how well it would sell. He also speaks 
of a shipment of plums (or peaches? khawkh) of which five camel-loads 
were loaded aboard a boat in Acre, and he is enquiring whether there is a 
demand for them in Fustat and whether it would not be preferable to 
transport this sort of merchandise by land. In a letter from Ascalon written 
by Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevorakh shortly after the Crusaders’ conquest 
of Jerusalem, they are still dealing with the essence of acacia (three Sham! 
[Palestinian] rath, apparently 2.5 kilograms each, that is approximately 8 
kilograms in all). Consignments of honey sent from Palestine to Egypt are 
also mentioned. The apples ofal-Sham (Palestine and Syria) were praised, 
as were their olives, according to Tha'alibi at the outset of the tenth 
century. As to sugar cane, we have seen above that it is mentioned in 
MuqaddasI; both Istakhri and Ibn Hawqal also refer to its being grown in 
the area of Tripoli and Beirut in Syria, as does also Nasir Khusraw, who 
observed the production of sugar syrup while visiting the area. Jacob b. 
Joseph b. Isma‘11 writes to Nehorai b. Nissim from Ascalon in around 
1060, saying that he intends buying sugar (evidently meaning syrup); he 
had already bought a certain quantity but it was of an inferior quality as it 
was reddish in colour. He sold it at a dinar per five rati s and lost money on 
the sale. There is an interesting detail here, namely that it was sugar from 
Zib, that is Akhzlv, and thus one may assume that there was a sugar 
refinery there. Joseph b. Sahl al-Baradaru, writing from Tripoli in ca. AD 
1060, also seems to have been involved in the purchase of sugar, and he 
mentions the price of 19.5 ttizan dinars the qintar, while Jacob b. Isma‘11, 
writing ca. 1060 from Tyre, points out that he has sold sugar in the same 
region (for Nehorai). It is not likely that this was sugar imported from 
Egypt; rather one can assume that it came from local stock stored in Tyre 
by the writer of the letter. Nehorai b. Nissim himself, writing from Fustat 
to Joseph ha-Kohen b. ‘All al-Fasl, who was purchasing commodities in 


to Nehorai, reminds him that he must buy wheat in good time (he writes from Tyre): 489 , 
b, line 3. 


227 



THE ECONOMY 


Palestine, mentions the price of sugar at 6 V 2 dinars, without specifying the 
unit of weight, in a list of market prices in Fustat . 3 

[338] Wheat and bread and their prices are frequently mentioned in 
Geniza letters. A woman who emigrated to Palestine and decided to settle 
in Tiberias writes to her brother in Fustat, who is also contemplating the 
possibility of settling in Palestine. She speaks of life in Tiberias as being 
cheaper than in Ramla, the price of bread there being one dirham per rati (a 
rather high price for those times - apparently this was a period of scarcity). 
Nathan b. Abraham points out that the price of wheat (in Egypt) is three 
dinars per tillls (at about the same time), four times as much, being four 
dirhams the rati. It is not surprising, then, that Israel b. Nathan, living in 
Jerusalem, is anxiously concerned with the price of wheat in Egypt, which 
was sky-high, especially in those years of drought which were constantly 
recurring whenever the waters of the Nile did not rise sufficiently. At such 
times, the prices in Palestine would soar as well, for there were very close 

3 MuqaddasI, Aqalim, 166, 180f; he lists some other plants and their meaning is not clear; cf. 
Le Strange, Palestine, 16f, who has an English translation and some comments. Cherries: 
qadm quraysh; apparently this is the correct interpretation. Cf. qarashiyya, in 394 , b, line 7; 
395 , line 9; in the dictionaries: qarasiya, which is borrowed from the Greek. Cf. also the 
editor’s notes in: Maimonides, ‘Uqqdr, 165 (No. 330); see below note 12. See also the 
definitions in De Goeje, Glossarium, BGA IV; and see BakrI, 292; the wines of Palestine 
acquired a reputation and Mas’udi even quotes a verse (from the time of the Umayyads) in 
praise of‘the wine golden like saffron, which the sea brings us from Ascalon’; see Muriij. 
VI, 7, and cf. many references to the wine of Gaza and Ascalon in pre-Islamic times in: 
Gregoireet Kugener (eds.), Marc le Diacre. Vie ie Porphyre, 124ff; see IdrisI (Cerulli), 354 f. 
Avon: 503 , a, lines 5-7; figs: 506 . Nasir Khusraw, 19 (text), 65 (translation). The other 
letter ofjacob b. Salman: 507 , in the upper margin, lines 14-15: 21 ‘pieces’ (qit'a and it is 
difficult to know what packaging is being hinted at by this term), of figs; b, line 2, two 
baskets of raisins ( zahtb ) and there the figs are again mentioned. Rose-petal preserves: 515 , 
line 12; 516 , lines 5f. 517 , b, lines 10fi, 17; in 514 , margin, he requests that the rose-petal 
preserves should be sold in the order in which they are received, so that they should not 
turn black. Plums: 517 , b, lines 18-21; cf. Goitein, Letters, 95, n. 16, on the meaning of 
khawkh. See also the Mishna Commentary ascribed to Nathan, av of the yeshiva, Zera'tm, 30 
(to Kil’ayim ch. i): khawkh means hafarseqtm - peaches); essence of acacia: 588 , margin; rati 
shami, see Hinz, 29f. Tha'alibI, Thtrnar, 531 f; Istakhri, 61 (line 4); Ibn Hawqal, 176; Nasir 
Khusraw, 12 (text), 40 (translation). Jacob b. Josephb. Isma‘il:487b, lines 2—4, 10. ZIb, see 
sources on it (beginning from the twelfth century): Le Strange, Palestine, 555f. Joseph b. 
Sahl: 491 , line 10; Nizari dinars, cf. also 517 , b, lines 16-17: Musa b. Jacob wants to know 
the rate of the Nizari dinars minted in Damascus ( al-kesafim ); it is difficult to know whether 
he means coins in general, or specifically silver coins. Goitein, Letters, 94, p. 15, quotes the 
student of Muslim coins, G. C. Miles, that in the days of Nizar, the Fatimid caliph al-‘Aziz, 
only gold coins were minted in Damascus; cf. 503 , a, lines 6-7: the Nizari dinars were at 
that time, in the greatest demand, and a grape-seller would only sell his wares for Nizari 
dinars. As to the qintar, we can assume that the Egyptian qintar is being spoken of, as he is 
writing to Egypt, that is one of 100 rath of 144 dirhams each, i.e. about 45 kilograms. See 
Hinz, 25 ( qintar filfili is the Egyptian qintar; as explained also by Abraham Maimuni, 
Commentary, 493); from this we learn that the price of sugar was in this deal approximately 
eight dirhams of the waraq type (40 in a dinar) per rati. Jacob b. Isma‘U: 494 , a, line 7. Letter 
ofNehorai: 508 , a, line8;cf. on the raising of sugar cane in Palestine: Ashtor, JAH, 4(1970), 
5. 


228 



OCCUPATIONS [SECS. 339 - 341 ] 


links with Egypt in trading relations. Israel b. Nathan notes in one of his 
letters that one bought a qafiz of wheat in Jerusalem for 3—372 dinars, 
whereas Avon b. Sedaqa boasts of having acquired 2 qaftzs of excellent 
wheat for 3'A dinars, that is, at the cost of 14 dirham per rati. As these were 
the prices demanded during a period of drought (Israel b. Nathan specifi¬ 
cally mentions that hunger is rampant in Jerusalem), it appears that they 
are speaking of a small qafiz (the qafiz can indicate anything from 4 to 201 
litres). It is interesting to note the composition of a month’s food supply 
with which a woman stocks her larder at the time, when her husband is 
away on a long journey (Tyre, 1102): three way has (some 35 kilograms) 
wheat and the cost of milling it into flour; a rati of ShamI oil (Palestinian 
olive oil); wood for heating, and apart from these, a bit more than 
three-quarters of a dinar in cash. 4 


Occupations 

[339] We have but a trickle of information on this subject. Muqaddasi, 
writing at the end of the tenth century, attempts to provide us with a 
general picture of the occupations of the Jewish and Christian inhabitants 
(to distinguish them from the Muslims, who were tribesmen, or military, 
religious or administrative personnel). According to him, the Jews were 
the majority among the money-changers (jahabidha ), the dyers (meaning 
textile-dyers), the bankers ( sayarifa ) and the tanners; while the Christians 

4 The letter from Tiberias: 247 , lines 16-17. Nathan b. Abraham: 176 , a, line 18. The tillis, a 
large sack, see Sobhy, 6; Abraham Maimuni, Commentary, 169; but according to Muqad¬ 
dasi, Aqdltm, 204, it had a specific capacity and in wheat it was 15 manns, i.e. 30 rath. Both 
Nathan b. Abraham and the Tiberian woman undoubtedly refer to the waraq dirham, 
which was 40 to a dinar, common at that time, in Egypt at any rate. Israel b. Nathan: 469 , a, 
line 21; 478 , b, line 4. The price of wheat: 480 , b, line 5; on the^ajfe, seeHinz, 48ff; cf. Isaac 
b. David b. Sughmar’s letter from Fustat, from ca. 1045, mentioning the price of wheat in 
the Maghrib: 4 athmdn per dinar, i.e. l h a dinar which was 20 dirhams per rati, a price that 
was only likely during a period of severe drought, as the writer points out in his letter, see 
485 , b, line 11. Avon: 501 , a, line 20. Alimonies in Tyre: 606 , lines 4-6; on the wayba, see 
Hinz, 52f; cf. Suyuti, Muhadara, I, 145; Jonah ibn Janah, 5. ha-shorashim, 40, 116f: it is the 
eyjd, i.e. 4,800 dirhams when dry. These wheat prices which we find in the Geniza 
documents apply, as noted, during periods of unusual dearth, and are many times the 
normal prices, which were about a 'A of a dirham (waraq) per rati; see Hinz, Die Welt des 
Orients, 2(1954), 53, 61, 50; Ashtor , JAH, 4(1970), 9; Ashtor, Histoire des prix, 50; cf. 
Sawlrus, 456: when al-jarawl put Alexandria under siege (ca. 825), the price of a wayba of 
wheat there reached two dinars and a dirham, i.e. one and a third dirham (waraq) per rati; 
but there were even much greater increases in prices. See Bianquis, JESHO, 23(1980), 74ff; 
he gathered data on the prices of wheat and bread in Egypt between September 1023 and 
February 1025, according to Musabbihl; a rati of bread cost from 0.06 dirham in times of 
abundance, and as much as one dirham during a drought. A tillts of wheat, which cost 0.80 
dinar in times of abundance, reached 4.33 during shortages. It seems that it was not clear to 
Bianquis that they were speaking of dirhams of the waraq type. 


229 



THE ECONOMY 


constituted most of the physicians and the scribes (i.e. the clerks, kataba). 
In my collection of Geniza documents, we do not come across Jewish 
tanners at all, nor dyers (but see: dar al-sabbaghm, the aforementioned 
house of the dyers in Ramla). Dealing in currency matters and banking 
activities, however, is often mentioned there, particularly in reference to 
the Maghribis, Many of the Jews and the Christians were evidently 
engaged in agriculture, especially in the smaller localities. Information on 
other occupations we find mainly in the Geniza documents; it is not 
extensive. There is evidence of the production of pottery in the remains of 
a workshop from the eighth century discovered during excavations in 
Ramla in 1965 in the south-western part of the present-day city, in an area 
covering ca. 250 square metres, 2 metres deep. In Haifa, Nasir Khusraw 
found ship-yards building the so-called jiidi ships, during his visit in 1047. 
The same writer-traveller also speaks of the many craftsmen and artisans 
in Jerusalem. 

Another branch which was certainly developed in Palestine was that of 
the production of building materials, although we have no information 
apart from what we have been told by MuqaddasI about the marble- 
producing quarries in Bet Guvrin (Baytjibril) and the white-stone quar¬ 
ries in jund Filastin. 

Tiberias was known for the floor-mats produced there, among them 
also the sajadas (the prayer-mats used by the Muslims, called also samdniyya- 
mats). Evidently occupations involving textiles were mostly the domain 
of the Jews. A Jerusalemite who fled to Fustat contracted a partnership 
with a financier from Fustat; the Jerusalemite was Nethanel (his Arabic 
name was Hibat Allah) b. Yeshu'a al-MaqdisT and the man of Fustat was 
Sedaqa he-haver b. Muvhar. This Nethanel was a qualified weaver; he 
invests 15 dinars in the partnership and Sedaqa invested 50. The products 
supplied by Nethanel are to be sold to the bazzazw, the textile merchants 
in the qaysariyyas (markets) and the profits or losses are to be divided 
equally. Sedaqa can decide at any moment to dissolve the partnership. 
Among the craftsmen in Jerusalem, there were also skilled spinners. Jacob 
b. Samuel the Spaniard (al-Andalusi), when buying injerusalem, writes to 
Joseph b. Nahum (evidently of the Baradani family) in Fustat, and men¬ 
tions that he has bought spun yarn. From the letters of Manasseh b. Joshua 
(in the middle of the eleventh century) we learn that it was customary to 
buy spun yarn injerusalem and send it to Tyre for finishing before the 
weaving process. In one of his letters, Manasseh confirms that the qhazl 
(threads, spun yarn), has arrived and that he has handed it over to a reliable 
Jewish craftsman, after going into the various professional aspects with 
other craftsmen. This is also an opportunity to familiarise ourselves with 
the names of the various types of threads. QaqalT, apparently a sort of 


230 



OCCUPATIONS [SECS. 339 - 341 ] 

elaborate dress in demand among the Christian pilgrims, are also supplied 
together with the threads. Payment was by ‘the needle’, the meaning of 
which is not clear, at three-quarters of a dinar per unit. Additional pay¬ 
ment was asked for tarz, i.e., the embroidery along the hem. There was 
also a charge for qasara (a term also found in Talmudic texts, which means 
the laundering and bleaching of the flax) and for daqq (pre-shrinking). The 
bleaching process could only be performed after Passover, for the summer 
bleaching was more effective than that of the winter. If the spun yarn had 
been sent a month or two before the holidays (i.e. before Tishri), it would 
have been possible to start on time, he writes. 

Evidence of the extensive Jewish occupation with textiles, both in their 
production and merchandising, can be found in a clause in an ancient 
formulary of a deed of sale in Palestine, still preserved in a receipt from the 
year AD 1026, in the handwriting of Abraham b. Solomon b. Judah: 
Turayq, daughter of Abraham, confirms that Muhassin b. Husayn (‘the 
representative of the merchants’), is no longer indebted to her; ‘not even 
’stm nor pil’d’, i.e. ‘neither for fabric nor for dye’. 5 

[340] Evidence of the existence of a flour mill injerusalem is apparent in 
a letter from Joseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon from Jerusalem to 
Ephraim b. Shemaria in Fustat (ca. 1050). In the margin is a note asking 
that his correspondence be sent to the following address: The mill of 
so-and-so (the name has not been preserved), the miller. Soap was manu- 

5 MuqaddasI, Aqdltm 183; speaking of Syrian and Palestinian areas. The potter’s workshop: 
Rosen-Ayalon and Eitan, IEJ, 16:148, 1966. Nasir Khusraw, 18 (text), 60 (translation); 
craftsmen injerusalem: 20 (text), 68 (translation). Quarries: MuqaddasI, ibid., 184. Despite 
the silence in the sources, the Jews evidently also engaged in tanning: in 460, Moses b. 
Jacob, writing from Jerusalem, wishes to know the prices of untanned leather and whether 
it is possible to ship it from Fustat to Jerusalem without damage. It seems that the sumach 
and gall-nuts mentioned in some letters in my corpus, were used in tanning. And despite 
the silence in those letters, Jews also seem to have been engaged in textile dying as well. 
According to Jahiz, thejews were the sole possessors of the secret of the crimson worm (the 
qirtniz); see Serjeant, Al, 15-16 (1951), 35. Mats of Tiberias: Nasir Khusraw, 17 (text), 58 
(translation); sdmdtiiyya , called after a quarter of Isfahan known for its weavers; see Ibn 
Taghri Bardi, II, 95; see on a Tiberian mat preserved in the Athens Museum: Combe, Mel. 
Dussaud : 841; the deed of partnership between Sedaqa and Nethanel: 541, from the year 
1086. Sedaqa the haver is apparently ‘Yesod [foundation of] ha-yeshiva’; see TS 13J 15, f. 4 
in Mann, Jews, II, 254; see also Gil, Documents , No. 43 (TS NS J 342v), line 6: ‘rabbenu 
yesod ha-yeshiva’ (our Master, the foundation of the yeshiva), in the accounts of the 
income of the heqdesh from the beginning of the twelfth century. Spun yarn: 493, a, line 
10. Manasseh b. Yeshu‘a: 522, a, lines 6f. See ibid, the note on the qaqali. In 523, there is 
information on the same subject; the fabrics were already in the market for a month or so, 
and it seems that he intends to send them to Jerusalem when someone reliable turns up; 
left-overs of the yarn remained in hand and he earned a quarter of a dinar on these, and 
awaits instructions as to what to do with the money; ’stm pil’d: 62, line 26, see the note there. 
During the Geonic period, they no longer knew the meaning of ’stm, as implied in MS 
Antonin 891, 2a, lines 19-20: ‘ Estemd is a kind ofjewel’ etc.; see Assaf, Teshfivot (1928/9), 
159; see the commentary of R. Hananel to BT, Shabbat, 57b: kippa (headgear); Goitein, 
Tarbiz, 36(1966/7) 370, assumed that ’stm meant indigo. 


231 



THE ECONOMY 


factored in Ramla and there is mention of Ramla’s soap storages. Avon b. 
Sedaqa, writing fromjerusalem to Nehorai b. Nissim in Fustat (ca. 1065) 
speaks of a journey to Ramla to purchase soap. In around 1040, Palestinian 
soap was sold in the markets of Fustat at four dinars per qintar evidently, 
while in the 1060s, it seems that the price went down to 2 2 h dinars. Nehorai 
stresses in his letter, which contains this detail, that this is the price of 
Palestinian soap ( sabun shami) whereas for the soap from the Maghrib 
(sabiin maghribi) there is no demand at all. 6 

[341] In one document, we come across a certain Sulayman ‘who was 
skilled at forging iron’ - a claim for payment due to him came before the 
Jerusalemites’ court in Fustat in the presence of Abraham b. Solomon b. 
Judah, in August 1030. It is likely that this Jewish blacksmith was a 
Palestinian. In Tyre, ca. 1040, a man is mentioned named Solomon b. 
a\-Ghallaq, meaning son of the locksmith. In a letter from Tyre, there 
is mention of a man from Hammat-Gader (Jadariyya) called Moses b. 
Semah, better known by the name al-Azraq the Magician; al-azraq - the 
blue-eyed; by magician ( qosem ) they undoubtedly meant an astrologer, 
which is the munajjim, one of the occupations the Jews excelled in. 7 

Book production 

[342] Book production evidently provided many of the Palestinians 
with a livelihood. A large number of letters in my collection contain 
details concerning scribes or book copyists. The grandson ofjosiah Gaon, 
Josiah b. Aaron, was one of those engaged in this craft and some of his 
letters have been preserved from his stay in Sahrajt in Egypt. Fie writes 
that he expects the arrival of a shipment of quires ( kararts ), evidently 
empty ones, and asks to be sent ink ( hibr ) - even sending an ink-well to 
Fustat for this purpose. It seems that he was assisted in his work by another 
scribe, a Rumi, meaning a Byzantine. At about the same time, we find 
Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph in Daltun in the Upper Galilee occupied 
in the same profession. Israel b. Nathan (Sahlun), Nehorai’s Maghribi 
cousin, who had formerly been involved in commerce (and evidently still 
had a hand in this pursuit), was busy copying books during his stay in 
Palestine. On the score of this craft, he succeeded in saving the cost of 

6 Joseph ha-Kohen’s letter: 409 ; this request evidently stemmed from the wish that the 
contents of this correspondence remain known only to themselves, and it seems that the 
same miller was a confidant of the writer. Avon: 503 , a, lines 31-32. The price of soap: 176 , 
right margin; one cannot be certain that the qintar is being referred to. Nehorai: 508 , b, line 
5; cf. Ashtor (Strauss), Zion, 7(1942), 152f; see also 494 , a, line 7, Jacob b. IsmaTl 
(apparently in Tyre) also deals with various types of soap (al-asdbiin). 

7 Sulayman: 102 , lines 9—10. The locksmith: 276 , b, line 17; at that time, locks were made of 
wood; see on this: Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 109; Gil, Documents, 179 n. 9; the 
magician: 278 , lines 32-33, cf. Gil, ibid., No. 16, n. 3 (p. 185). 


232 



BOOK PRODUCTION [SECS. 342 - 344 ] 


travelling from Byzantium to Palestine even before starting on the work, 
by receiving an advance amounting to one dinar. Avon b. Sedaqa also 
speaks of Israel b. Nathan, a copyist living in Jerusalem, and he also 
mentions another Jerusalem scribe, Yeshu'a (b. Samuel?). At approxi¬ 
mately the same time, Joshua he-haver b. ‘Eli of Ramla writes to Judah b. 
Saadia (who was later granted the title ‘Nagid’ in Egypt) asking him to 
find some copying work for him among the people of Fustat, for ‘the 
scholars of this city [probably Ramla] are few’. A colophon in the manu¬ 
script of the introduction to the Talmud by Samuel b. Hofni indicates that 
this copy was finished injerusalem on 10 Marheshwan AM 4796 (Wednes¬ 
day, 15 October AD 1035). Israel b. Nathan, in 1059, copies the Mishna 
orders Nashim and Neziqin and is prepared to copy anything for Nehorai, 
such as commentaries (tafisir), in order not to be idle and to earn 
something ‘until the Lord looks upon him and sees him from heaven’. In 
September 1060 he has finished copying the abovementioned Mishna 
orders and wants to know whether anyone in Fustat is interested in a copy 
of tafisir or Mishna, or halakhot (evidently Sefer Halakhot Gedolot), or 
Talmud. When in Gush Halav, he promises that during his stay in Da¬ 
mascus, he will copy the order Qodashlm (for he seems to think that he 
would find a good copy there to work from), from the ‘Iraqi Talmud’; he 
is prepared to copy one of the notebooks ( dajtar ) of the head of the yeshiva 
(evidently he is referring to a collection of responsa). In another letter, he 
again mentions copying the following treatises (from the Babylonian 
Talmud): Qodashlm, Mo‘ed, Berakhot. In a letter dated November 1061, he 
acknowledges receiving the copyists’ ruler ( qiyas ) used for the length of the 
sheets, and he also requests a ‘width ruler’, without which he will be 
unable to finish the chapter he is copying. Also he asks the addressee to 
find out whether someone is interested in having him copy the treatise 
Nazir, and if so, he must be sent quires for this purpose. After Passover, he 
intends to copy only the books of the Pentateuch, for the demand is mainly 
for volumes ( masahif) of the Bible. Reliable manuscripts which are worth 
copying can be found in al-Mahdiyya, he writes (evidently brought there 
from Iraq in the tenth century) and Labrat (judge of al-Mahdiyya, of the 
Sughmar family) and Abu Sa‘id, who live there, should be urged to 
acquire a leather-bound Bible ( mujallad) for him. Even if it is expensive, 
they should send him the volumes of the Talmud ( masahif al-talmud). In 
another letter written on 14 March 1062, he promises that after Passover, 
he will start work on copying the Midrash Tehilllm ( agadat tehilltm). 

Books are also mentioned in letters from Ascalon at the end of the 
eleventh century. Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevorakh requests that eight 
books of the Prophets, unproofed, that had been left behind in Fustat, be 
sent to his father. It seems that the family was involved in producing 


233 



THE ECONOMY 


books, or perhaps they used to buy unproofed books, which were 
cheaper, which they would then correct themselves. In another letter, 
Nathan mentions that he holds as deposit quires belonging to a certain 
Siba‘ b. Mufarrij, known as Ibn al-Kazirunl, which contain an old copy 
(nuskha qadtma) of Halakhot Gedolot in a small, reddish script, somewhat 
faded. Mention is made of selling some of the quires in Ascalon, and the 
writer is prepared to pay one and a half to two dinars for the Halakhot 
Gedolot. In another letter, he says that there are no longer any books of the 
Talmud left in Ascalon (meaning that the books which the refugees had 
brought with them when fleeing from the Crusaders had disappeared). 
Most of the Bibles have been sold but he found four complete Bibles at the 
home of a widow, daughter ofb. Saghlr (b. Saglnr- undoubtedly Solo¬ 
mon b. Saadia), in good condition, except for the bindings, which were 
damaged; one volume (mushafj of the Pentateuch had its title pages some¬ 
what obliterated; the volume which contains the four books of the first 
Prophets has some of its first and final pages piled, but the volume 
containing the four books of the last Prophets and the scrolls is in a good 
state, apart from the binding. Some people are prepared to pay her 12 
dinars for them and he awaits instructions as to how to proceed. It seems 
that this was the usual price for a complete Bible, as we can deduce from 
Joseph b. Sahl al-Baradani’s letter to Nehorai b. Nissim in which the sale 
of a new Bible for the price of 13 dinars is mentioned, evidently the work 
of Israel b. Nathan. We find interesting details concerning payment for 
book-making in a letter from Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph of Daltun, 
mentioning the fee for copying per quire; for one type, they paid 2 /.s qirat: 
per quire, whereas for another type, l‘/& of a qirat, apart from the cost of 
the paper. According to the writer, it appears that in fixing the price, the 
number of letters per page in the original manuscript (from which the 
copy was being made) was taken into consideration. 8 

[343] From book-copying we move on to the subject of paper and its 

8 Josiah b. Aaron: 202 (ca. 1030). Solomon ha-Kohen: 250 . Israel b. Nathan copies books: 465 
(lines 1 Off.); advance payment: 466 ; the Maghribi Israel b. Nathan can be seen as a pursuer 
of the tradition of the scribes of the Maghrib (and in a more distant past: of Babylonia) in 
Palestine; on Labrat b. Moses ibn Sughmar (and on his brother Judah) see below, n. 42. In 
the colophon written in the MS of the first Prophets, Joseph b. Jacob ha-Ma'aravI (‘the 
Maghribi’) says that he wrote, he vocalised and inserted the masorah , ‘according to the 
proofed books vocalised and provided with the masorah by Aaron b. Moses b. Asher’; and 
this he did in ‘Jerusalem the holy city ... in the year 1300’ (Sel.; = 989); see the complete 
version: Kahle, Masoreten des Western, I, 65, cf. Hirschberg, Eretz-Israel, 5(1959), 216. 
Avon: 498 , a, lines 14f; b, lines 2f; Joshua b. ‘Eli: 567 , lines 21ff. Introduction to the 
Talmud: TS Loan 108. The works oflsrael b. Nathan: 469 , b, lines lOf; 470 , a, margin; 474 ; 
475 , a. lines 12ff; 479 , a, lines 5f, 16f, in the margin and the continuation in b, lines 6f, 11. 
Ascalon: 581 , a, lines 12-17; 583 . lines 12f; 588 , lines 7f. Joseph b. Sahl al-BaradanI’s letter: 
492 , a, lines 6-12. Cf. Beit-Arie. Te'ttda, 1(1980), 197; on the Bible in Ascalon, the property 
of the widow, daughter of Saghlr, it is interesting to note TS 10 J 5, f. 15, written in the 


234 



BOOK PRODUCTION [SECS. 342-344] 

supply. Parchment (riqq and in the plural ruquq, in Arabic; cf. roq, roqin, in 
the Talmudic sources) was still very much in use. Israel b. Nathan sends 
Nehorai instructions regarding the purchase and manner of shipping 
ruqiiq. Due to the lack of parchment, he has wasted the summer. Abiathar, 
writing on 14 November 1070, from Jerusalem, mentions letters written 
by his father, head of the yeshiva; one on a long roll of parchment (riqq 
kabtr ) and others on red paper. The Karaite Mahbub b. Nissim gives the 
captain of a ship a package of parchment leaves (shakara ruquq) as a bribe to 
persuade him to deviate from his usual route. 9 

[344] In the eleventh century, however, most of the writing was already 
being done on paper, and this can easily be seen from the Geniza, in which 
the various kinds of parchment are rather rare. Paper is mentioned in a 
number of documents in my collection. The scribe from Daltun, Solomon 
ha-Kohen, writes about a book copied on excellent paper (waraqjayyid) in 
ca. 1030. Maghribi merchants also traded in paper and its transport. Israel 
b. Nathan, who copied books when in Gush Halav, awaits money for 
purchasing paper. Daniel b. Azariah writes to ‘Eli b. ‘ Amram and asks to 
have notebooks copied in Fustat containing geonic queries and responsa 
(he mentions the Gaon Samuel, apparently referring to Samuel b. Hofni). 
He would like to have them copied by an expert scribe and on good paper- 
not on Egyptian paper but on AndalusI or Itrabulusi (from Spain or 
Tripoli), and on a large galley. Each quire should be carefully examined 
and proofed upon completion. From this we learn that the Gaon may not 
have relied upon the work of the Palestinian scribes (or perhaps they had 
too much work), and that paper from Spain and Tripoli, was preferable to 
Egyptian paper. Indeed, Nasir Khusraw points out that the paper manu¬ 
factured in Tripoli is similar to that made in Samarqand and is of an even 
finer quality. 

Musa b. Jacob, who was based in Tyre, dealt in paper on a rather large 
scale and there are four of his letters included in my collection which were 
written between August 1057 andjanuary 1058 from Damascus and Tyre. 
They speak ofbuying paper in Damascus in hundreds of dinars - mention¬ 
ing 15 loads of paper (at least two tons). He shipped more than twenty 

middleofSha‘ban412, i.e. 24 November 1021: Samuel b. Jacob receives twenty-five dinars 
for copying eight books of the Prophets for Abu Nasr Salama (who is Solomon) b. SaTd 
(Saadia) b. Saghlr, according to the namudaj (Persian: model) owned by Abu Ishaq Ibrahim 
b. Hujayj (Abraham b. Haggai); for this Solomon b. SaTd is the father of the above- 
mentioned widow, and perhaps they are also referring to the same book; cf. Goitein, 
Mediterranean Society, II, 239; 574, n. 53 

5 See 469 , b, line 3; 472 a, in the upper margin; b, line 1. Abiathar: 547 , a, lines 40-41. 
Mahbub b. Nissim: 292 , a, line 11. On the use of parchment, see the quotation in Pirqoy b. 
Baboy, from the opinion of R. Yehudai Gaon concerning the discussion on what is banned 
and permitted in using riqq (see Mann, REJ, 70 [1920], 118f, and see the version on p. 137 
where the main contention of the Gaon is that it is permitted to use riqq only if it has been 


235 



THE ECONOMY 


parcels (evidently rolls are intended here) of paper to Ramla and they 
arrived safely. We gather from his letters that paper was sold in Fustat 
either by wholesale weight or by retail sheets. When the paper arrived at its 
destination, it had then to be sold quickly, before it darkened. The paper is 
brought from Damascus (or perhaps also from Tripoli) to Tyre, by land 
on camels. Special identification marks (‘alama) impressed on the paper by 
the manufacturer are mentioned, these probably being water-marks; the 
paper he purchased had the ‘alama of Ibn Imam, evidently a Damascene 
paper-maker. It seems therefore that there was no local paper manufac¬ 
turer in Palestine in the eleventh century and paper was imported from 
Damascus or Tripoli, although MuqaddasT mentions paper ( kaghid) being 
made in Tiberias. A possible explanation may be that its manufacture 
gradually came to an end in the course of the generations from Muqad- 
dasi’s time at the turn of the tenth century to that of the Geniza letters in the 
mid-eleventh century. 10 


Exports 

[345] In this section, we must give pride of place to oil, that is olive oil, 
an important Palestinian export in antiquity. At the start of the ninth 
century, a certain mawla (client) of the Umayyads, a Jew or Christian who 
became a Muslim, by the name of al-Hakam b. Maymun, is mentioned. 
He dealt in the export of oil from Palestine, and would transport it by 
camel caravan to Medina. Nasir Khusraw speaks of the production of 
olive oil; he notes trees which rendered 5,000 matin (some 3,500 litres!) 
each. The oil was kept in containers in hollows in the earth and was 
exported all over the world. He adds that owing to its bread and oil, 
al-Sham (Palestine and Syria) never suffered from starvation. In the Ge¬ 
niza documents from the mid-eleventh century, there are also references 

treated with gall-nuts); see also Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 422, nn. 83, 84; and see 
ibid., II, App. B. (No. 32, p. 447), the name al-Ruquql, maker of (or dealer in) parchment. 
10 Solomon ha-Kohen: 250 , b, lines 3-4. On the matter of the Maghribis, see the affair of the 
partnership which came up before the court of Daniel b. Azariah: 394 , line 12. Egyptian 
paper was called Mansur! paper. It was made in vats ( matabikh : literally boiling places) in 
Fustat (not in al-Qahira), see al-Mughrib, V, 29, quoting al-Kamd’im ofal-Bayhaqi (who is 
apparently IsmaTl b. Husayn al-Bayhaqi, who wrote in ca. 1010, see Sezgin, I, 451, not as 
in Brockelmann, GAL, S I, 558); Maqrlzl, Khitat, II, 183-186, quotes a long fragment 
from the Mughrib, also referring to Mansur! paper (p. 185). Israel b. Nathan: 474 , a, line 10; 
in 480 , a, lines 7-8, he confirms that he has sent eleven sheets of paper from his stock in 
Jerusalem to Nehorai in Fustat, with a certain R. Isaac. Daniel b. Azariah: 371 . Nasir 
Khusraw, 12 (text), 41 (translation). Musa b. Jacob: 514 - 517 . Paper in Tiberias: Muqad- 
das!, Aqdlim, 180, cf. Le Strange, Palestine, 19, according to whom paper was made of 
cotton there; see also Mez, 440; Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 81; 410 and n. 2; Ashtor, 
CCM, 18(1975), 119. 


236 



EXPORTS [SECS. 345-351] 


to the oil trade of Palestine. Israel b. Nathan dealt in oil via Ascalon, and it 
seems that he met with losses in this sphere. Jacob b. Samuel informs 
Nehorai from Jerusalem that he has acquired a quantity of two qirabas of 
oil (some 66 litres) for him, undoubtedly for export, and delivered it to Ibn 
al-Tuflahi (apparently a ship-owner) in Jaffa. 11 

[346] I have already mentioned commerce in fruit and rose-petal pre¬ 
serves. Dried rose-petals and rose-hips were another export item and 
mention is made of a shipment of this kind in 1037 from Tyre. Fruit syrups 
(sharab) and sumach ( sumaq ) were goods whichjoseph b. Sahl al-Baradani 
supplied from Palestine through Tyre. Jacob b. Isma‘Il also sends Nehorai 
cinnamon via Tyre which evidently first reached Palestine from the Far 
East and Nehorai is to sell it in Egypt and buy other merchandise there 
from the proceeds. There were 47 units of cinnamon in all and they were 
shipped on board b. Shiblun’s vessel. Joseph b. Yeshu'a al-Tarabulusi, a 
sort of partner or agent of Barhun b. Musa al-Tahirtl, writes ofa shipment 
of 17 units of myrobalan (halilaj) and a shipment of sabir (aloe, frankin¬ 
cense) suqutrt. 12 

[347] Another item of Palestinian export was salt produced from the 

11 Al-Hakam: Isbahani, Aghant, VI, 64. Nasir Khusraw, 20 (text), 67 (translation); on the 
excellent olives and olive oil of Palestine, see also Ibn al-Faqlh, 117; Tha‘alibi, Thimdr, 532. 
Israel b. Nathan: 482 , a, lines 12f. Jacob b. Samuel: 493 , a, lines 8-9; the capacity of the 
qiraba is assumed, see Gil, JNES, 34(1975), 68. n. 43. The oil occupied a prominent place in 
Maghribi merchants’ trading, as can be seen from the table, ibid. , 68ff. See the matter of 
marketing indigo in Qayrawan and the purchase of 60 ziqqs (evidently = qirba, see Gil, 
ibid.) of oil, i.e. approx, two tons: 493 , a, lines 15f; the oil was sent to Sicily. 

12 Roses: 275 (the payment for the shipment was deposited in Tyre with Moses b, Isaac ‘the 
Spaniard’, perhaps a Karaite, whom we later find in Jerusalem). Joseph b. Sahl: 491 , lines 
8-9. Cinnamon: 495 , b, lines 2f, Joseph b. Yeshu'a: 496 , b; the halilaj (myrobalan) is the 
Phyllantus emblica fruit (see Zohary, 293); the Maghribi merchants dealt in this product 
extensively, see the Hebrew Index. There were different varieties: black, yellow and kabill 
(from Kabil, today the capital of Afghanistan), see Shazari, Nihdya, 45 and there, the 
editor’s note 8; a hadith ascribed to the Prophet recommends the use of black halilaj, see 
‘Azizi, II, 454; al-Ghafiql, 552: the yellow halilaj is the best remedy for diarrhoea, see also 
ibid. , p. 549; Ibn Mammati, 362, points out that the kabill halilaj is weighed by mantis , like 
saffron; see al-Mu‘izz b. Badis, 94: how ink is made from halilaj; see further: Ducros, 8, see 
also ibid., 80, on the sabir suqulri (Aloe Succotrina) from which a concentrated syrup is 
prepared which energises, warms and dries; this is the levond ( Boswellia ), see the Hebrew 
Index; see also Maimonides, ‘Uqqdr, 157f (No, 318); this sabir was brought from the island 
of Socotra in the Indian Ocean, on the eastern side of the Bay of Aden. See the article 
Sokotra (by J. Tkatsch) in El 1 . Related to this is the halilaj which is the Indian myrobalan 
mentioned in 394 , line 6, and in 395 , line 8, and this is the Belleria myrobalan or the 
Terminalia bellerica, see Ghafiqi, 262ff; this myrobalan was used as a medicine for diseases 
of the intestines, but was also considered helpful for ailing sight, headaches and the 
vapours. We find in 394 that considerable trading was carried on by the Maghribi 
merchants in perfumes and essences which they exported to Sicily and here there is 
mention of (1) bamboo crystals ( tabdshir ), a product also called ‘snake ashes’; it was made 
from the lower parts of the bamboo stalks and contained silicon, calcium and organic 
material; they would produce an imitation by using ivory or bone meal; this was used as a 
medicine for inflammations, intestinal diseases and other illnesses; see Maimonides, 


237 



THE ECONOMY 


Dead Sea. Wax also figured among the products which were concentrated 
in Tyre for export. Yefetb. Meshullam, a Karaite fromjerusalem living in 
the Karaite quarter, the Samareitike, ships 30 rat Is of‘cheese made on the 
Mount of Olives’ including 339 tejusim (moulds). 13 

[348] Tyre was famous for its glass and evidently so was Acre. Thejews 
of Palestine and Syria were expert at making glass which contained lead 
and would export it to various countries, including those of Europe, 
where it became known as ‘Jewish glass’. Specific evidence of this can be 
found in a power-of-attorney deed made out in Tyre on 25 January 1011, 
in which Khalaf (Halfon) b. Moses b. Aaron, whose nickmane was Ibn 
Abl Qlda, the ‘representative of the merchants’ in Tyre, authorises his 
father-in-law Solomon b. Rabi‘, who stayed in Fustat, to collect from the 
‘representative of the merchants’ in Fustat, Caleb b. Aaron, what is due 
him for 37 mishpaldt (baskets, parcels) of glass, which were partly his 
property and partly in partnership with Abraham b. HabashI and Aaron b. 
Jacob, who is Ibn Abl Rujayf. 14 

'Uqqar, 171 (No. 84); Ducros, 84; (2) aloe {‘ud); see Maimonides, ibid., 145f (No. 296): 
kinds of Aquilonia; (3) sweet resin, (qust or qust, hulw; see Maimonides, ibid., 169 (No. 338); 
which is the kostos of the Greeks; and in Persian: bustaj or bustag; in Aramaic: kushta; 
produced from Inula Helenium L. = Aucklandiq Costus Falc.; made mainly in Kashmir, 
where at the beginning of this century, its production was still a state monopoly; it is the 
Saussurea hypoleuca Spr.; a remedy for coughing and asthma; see Maimonides, ibid., 169 
(No. 338); Ducros, 106; ‘Azizi, II, 159, 442; there are two kinds of qust, the Indian, which is 
black and the marine, which is white, the Indian being the stronger of the two; see Jonah 
ibnJanah, S. ha-shorashim, 642: this is Biblical qesVot, according to Saadia Gaon’s interpret¬ 
ation; (4) baltlaj, (5) saffron; (6) cinnamon ( qirfa ). In 470, b, lines 3-4, Israel b. Nathan asks 
Nehorai b. Nissim to send him, apart from half a qtrdt of aniseed, a qtrdt and a half of good 
quality cinnamon, ground finely, red and sharp. Nehorai himself asks on behalf of another 
Maghribi, Abraham b. Isaac ha-Talmid, of Joseph ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli al-Fasi, who is in 
Tyre, to sell the cinnamon for him bi’l-qism wa’t-rizq (see on this below); see Solomon b. 
ha-Yatom’s commentary on MashqTn, 65: ‘cinnamon in the language of Ishmael is qirfa'; 
(7) myrrh (murr), was used for stimulation, as an astringent, for coughs etc., see Ducros, 
123; (8) yellow myrobalan (halilaj asjar ); cardamom ( hdl) is the Elettaria Cardamomum, see 
Maimonides, ibid., 58 (No. 116). Cf. Zohary, 441; (9) aloe juice (sabir); (10) water of 
camphor {kafir). Apart from these, mention is also made there of qarashiyya, cherries 
perhaps, see Maimonides, ibid., 165 (No. 330). The value of the entire shipment, including 
packing and storage, was close to 169 dinars, undoubtedly a very large sum. 

13 Salt: Baumstarck, Palastinapilger, 73; the export of salt is not mentioned in my corpus of 
Geniza documents and the purchase of salt is only referred to once, for household use, in 
Jerusalem: 501, a, line 22. Wax: 276, b, line 11. Cheese: 309 . Possibly thejerusalemrafl, i.e. 
2.5 kilograms is meant (Hinz, 29) and then it is a shipment of 75 kilograms and each mould 
of cheese weighs ca. 220 grams; at thisjuncture, we should perhaps refer to what appeared 
to be evidence of the export of butter from Palestine: the responsum of an anonymous 
Gaon quoted by the Maharam, who notes that in Africa they would permit the use of 
butter from ‘the pagans', ‘but since they began to bring them the butter of Hammat and 
Gush Halav, and adulterate it with heiev, (animal fat), we ban’, etc.; see Poznanski, 
Harkavy Jubilee Volume 218; Ginzberg, Geonica, I, 31fF, 218; but this is not a source on 
export from Palestine, as Abramson has proven, ‘Inyandt, 236f, and it seems that the use of 
Palestinian names here is merely symbolic. 

14 Praise of al-Sham glass: Tha'alibi, ihim ay. 532; IdrlsI (Cerulli). 365; cf. Ashtor, CCM, 

238 



EXPORTS [SECS. 345-351] 


[349] Indigo, which also grew in Palestine, was in demand on the world 
markets at the time. It grew mainly in the region of the Dead Sea and the 
Jordan Valley. In one of his letters, Avon b. Sedaqa mentions purchasing 
indigo and grains oiwasma, another variety of indigo. A record written in 
Nathan b. Abraham’s court in Fustat in 1040, contains details of a liti¬ 
gation between indigo merchants concerning large shipments of indigo to 
Sicily and Mahdiyya, apparently referring to shipments of indigo from 
Palestine. Daniel b. Azariah, in one of his letters written from Tyre before 
he became the Palestine Gaon and was still engaged in trade, notes the 
going price of indigo in Tyre: ‘the prices are rising, approximately nine 

.. . ’ (no details of the currency or unit of weight remain). A deed of 
partnership relating to export to Sicily from 1058, mentions large quanti¬ 
ties of indigo as well. Nehorai b. Nissim speaks of the rising price of 
indigo (in ca. 1067) because it was in great demand in Palestine itself; and 
the merchants (evidently Maghribis) preferred to put their money into 
indigo rather than flax, which was scarce and expensive. There was also 
considerable demand for this product in the Maghrib. A certain R. May- 
mun, located in Fustat, is worried about the fate of a shipment of indigo 
belonging to him which was to have arrived by ship from Palestine. 15 

[350] Various types of weaving and textiles made in Palestine were also 
in demand on foreign markets. Fine linen, slush is mentioned, as having 
been produced mainly in Palestine - shlsh shami - (also in Cyprus: shtsh 
qubrusl , and it seems that it was exported from there via Palestine). I have 
already mentioned the linen yarn sent from Jerusalem to Tyre for fin¬ 
ishing. Joseph b. Samuel al-AndalusI, writing fromjerusalem to Joseph b. 
Nathan al-Baradani in Tyre, also mentions having bought his spun yarn in 
Jerusalem, and hence we assume that there was a demand for Jerusalem 
yarns and that they were exported. Jacob b. Isma‘Tl al-Andalusi writes 
from Tyre to Abu’l-Walld Yunus (Jonah) b. Da’ud, in Egypt or perhaps in 
Spain, stating that he bought 40 pieces of qazz fabric in Tyre. Qazz was a 
kind of silk, evidently mixed with rabbit-wool. In another letter to Neh¬ 
orai b. Nissim, he also mentions a cargo of qazz which he is loading on 
board a ship. A load of qazz sent to Egypt through Tripoli in Lebanon is 

18(1975), 119; Lamm, Glaser , 15; Heyd, Hist., I, 179f; Power-of-attorney: 268; Halfon b. 
Moses is mentioned in a number of documents in my corpus; his wife Dara b. Solomon 
and his brother-in-law ‘Eli b. Solomon are also mentioned; see the Hebrew Index; see also 
Consistoire israelite VII D 78, a fragment of a marriage deed from Tyre, in which apart 
from the aforementioned Khalaf b. Moses b. Aaron, several other inhabitants ofTyre are 
mentioned. Printed by Friedman, in Marriage, II, 384 and see details about Khalaf b. Moses 
ibid., 387. 

15 See on indigo; MuqaddasI, Aqalim, 7, who mentions the indigo ofjericho; cf. Mez, 440; 
Serjeant, AI, 11-12 (1946), 143. Avon: 503, a, line 15; the court record: 193. Daniel b. 
Azariah: 347, b, line 2; the deed of partnership: 394, line 1; 395, line 7. The matter was 
brought before the court of Daniel b. Azariah. Nehorai’s letter, 508, a, lines 6-7, b, line 10. 


239 



THE ECONOMY 


also mentioned injacob b. Salman al-Harm’s letters, speaking of red qazz 
fabric. Idrisi, writing in the mid-twelfth century, refers to the costly white 
fabrics made in Tyre which are exported everywhere. 

Other goods being sent via Tyre to Egypt byjacob b. Isma‘Tl were the 
fabrics of Tustar (thiyab Tustar), but we do not know whether textiles of 
the Tustar variety were actually manufactured in Palestine or whether 
fabrics were exported which came from elsewhere, or perhaps from 
Tustar itself. Abraham b. Isaac al-Andalusi, writing in Jerusalem to Neh- 
orai b. Nissim in Fustat, mentions the possibility of exporting coloured 
fabrics, apparently through Ascalon, and asks him to take stock of the 
market conditions in Fustat. Ascalon was itself a centre for the manu¬ 
facture of textiles and the Ascaloni fabric, thawb ‘asqalatii, is spoken of. We 
find a long list of exports from Ascalon in Jacob b. Joseph b. Isma‘11 
al-Itrabulusf s letter to Nehorai b. Nissim. He purchased sumach ( sumaq ), 
gall-nuts (probably for tanning), cedar resin, sugar from ZIb (see above), 
cotton ( qutn ) which was sold in Ascalon at four rati s and ten ounces per 
dinar, which he had intended to sell on the spot but for which he could not 
find customers. We find a similar list of commodities bought in Jerusalem 
by Avon b. Sedaqa: plums ( sabastan ), glue, almonds and soap. 16 

16 Shish shami, qubrusi, see 507, a, lines 9-10, the letter from Jacob b. Salman al-Hariri to 
Nehorai b. Nissim from ca. 1060; he is staying in Ramla and has with him shish made in 
Cyprus, which sells at two dinars per small rati, and the writer wishes to know whether he 
should sell it in Ramla or bring it to Fustat, if the selling price there is higher; see ibid., also 
lines 13, 15; margin, right; b, line 3; also in another of his letters, written from Syrian 
Tripoli, he mentions the trading in slush, see 506, a, margin, right. It is customary to 
interpret the word slush (more common in Arabic: shash) — Mosul weave (English: 
muslin), which is a fine cotton fabric; but it seems that in the period under discussion, it 
meant fine linen cloth, for cotton was not commonly used at the time; see also Jonah ibn 
Janah, Sefer ha-shorashim, 692: Shesh, linen. See also Nissim b. Halfon’s letter to Nehorai b. 
Nissim: BM Or 5566 B, f. 20, lines 10-11, containing a request from Nehorai to inform 
him of the price of al-shish al-shdmi al-khalis wa’I-manqud (evidently he means two kinds, 
according to the quality, the pure as against the inferior). Jacob b. Salman: 493, a, line 10. 
Jacob b. Isma‘11: 494, line8; 495, a, lines 15—16;Jacob b. Salman: 506, a, line 10; 507, b, lines 
1-2; A coat of khazz is also mentioned in the dowry list in the Karaite marriage deed from 
Jerusalem, 305, line 23 (1028), and it seems that the meaning there is: rabbit-wool. See on 
khazz: Gil, JESHO, 17(1974), 312; see Idrisi (Cerulli), 365. Tustari fabric: 495, a, lines 
14-15; on tustari (or dustary, also dibaj, silk, tustari) fabric, see Gil, ha-Tustarim, 21, and ibid. 
further references. Coloured weavers: 505, line 12. Thawb ‘asqaldni, see TS NS J 127, a, 
line 5, cf. Goitein, Letters, 288, n. 7. Jacob b. Joseph: 487, lines 18f: he loads three 
shipments of sumach and notes that one shipment remained with him because he did not 
have a container for it; cedar-resin — see in the upper margin: kathird’: in Aramaic: kesharta, 
see BT, Berakhot, 43a: R. Ada b. Ahava said: on the kesharta one has to say the blessing:. .. 
who created trees of scents. On the matter of the kathird’-keshartd, Geonic sources say it is 
qust (resin). In the name of Hay y Gaon it is said: kesharta isghdliya which is several scents 
mixed in oil. Till, 98, according to the Coptic medicinal tradition, defines kathird': a resin 
from various kinds of tragacanth, used to cure skin diseases, rheumatism, spitting blood 
and more, while ghdliya (see above), is defined by Kazimirski, s. v., as a perfume, which is 
blade, being a blend of musk, ambergris, and other scents. See Epstein, Commentary, 144, 
n. 17; Hayy: Osar ha-ge’dnim Ber., Comment., 61; ‘Ariikh, qst, kshr (in the supplementary 


240 



INTERNAL TRADE; IMPORTS [SECS. 352-358] 


[351] In the eleventh century, most of Palestine’s exports went to 
Egypt, as is clearly indicated in the Geniza documents and especially in the 
letters of the Maghribi merchants. This was understandable, partially 
because of Palestine’s political dependence on Egypt and also because 
Egypt was the major commercial centre in the Mediterranean basin at the 
time. However, exports from Palestine reached other countries as well. 
There is the somewhat doubtful evidence of export to Europe in the story 
of the Jewish merchant who used to visit Palestine and bring precious 
objects from there, the likes of which had never been seen before. Char¬ 
lemagne ordered him to fool the Archbishop Richulf of Mainz in order to 
humiliate him, so the Jew sold him a mouse. In view of the widespread 
connections maintained throughout the Mediterranean area by the Magh¬ 
ribi merchants - Sicily, Spain, North Africa, Byzantium - apparently such 
Palestinian items as the glass mentioned above, did reach all these coun¬ 
tries by virtue of their mediation. 17 


Internal trade 

[352] Not much has been preserved in the sources on the subject of 
internal trade. The existence of‘Jewish markets’ in Jerusalem, Ramla, and 
Tiberias is evidence of the central role of the Jews in commerce. I have 
already mentioned ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel’s shop injerusalem and below 
I shall refer to shops in Ramla which were dedicated to the Jewish waqf In 
Jerusalem. Jews were also engaged in commercial activities in smaller 
localities, such as the aforementioned trading of goods in Hammat Gader. 
There is the episode of the Jerusalem Karaite of Spanish origin who was 
persecuted by his fellow-sectarians. He went over to the Rabbanites, who 
set up a shop for him in a village near Jerusalem. Much of the internal trade 
was conducted on market days, at the large fairs in places throughout 
Palestine. According to the Book of the Times by Ibn Masawayh, the 
Nestorian author of the first half of the ninth century, a market day injund 
Filastin (undoubtedly referring to Ramla) was held on the 23rd of April. 
He also mentions other market days in Idhra‘at on the 13th of October, in 
Busra in the Hawran on the 14th ofjuly, and in ‘Amman on the 10th of 
August. On the 14th of September, there was a fair which he refers to as 
‘the Feast of the Church of the Resurrection’ injerusalem, a holiday more 
commonly known as the ‘Feast of the Cross’ (‘id al-salib). Blrunl lists it 
among the Nestorian holidays, occurring on the 13th of September, but he 

vol.). Cotton: 487 , b, lines 7f (one rati = 12 ounces). Avon b. §edaqa: 501 , a, line 38, cf. 

Hirschberg, Eretz-Israel, 5 (1958/9), 219. 

17 See the story of the Jewish merchant, in Aronius, No. 75. 


24I 



THE ECONOMY 


refers to it as being the day Helena, mother of Constantine, discovered the 
cross (on which Jesus was crucified, of course); and on the morrow, it was 
displayed before the people. The Christians were divided on this issue: 
some celebrated the day it was found (the 13th) and others celebrated it on 
the day it was displayed (the 14th). Arculf tells of a grand fair taking place 
in Jerusalem precisely on the 15th of September, when countless people of 
various nations come to Jerusalem in order to trade. Israel b. Nathan 
mentions the 'id al-salib in a letter he wrote injerusalem on 14 March 1062. 
The text is not very clear but it seems that he wants to say that trading in 
silk and oil is not successful after the 'id al-salib, that is after the Jerusalem 
fair, a fact which some of the Ascalon merchants experienced in person. 18 


Imports 

[353] We have seen that Palestine was self-sufficient with regard to food 
and that there was even some exporting of surplus food commodities. 
Similarly, certain products known for the quality of their workmanship 
were also exported. On the other hand, it seems that there was also a 
thriving import trade, at least during relatively peaceful times. The import 
trade was apparently directed to a large extent towards the pilgrims of all 
creeds who filled Jerusalem and wanted to buy such items as perfumes, 
jewellery, clothes and various textiles. It seems that there was considerable 
consistency in the list of imported items dating from pre-Islamic times, 
about which we have not a little knowledge. Expensive goods, such as 
perfumes and spices, a variety of fabrics and weaves, especially silks, 
jewellery and precious stones, and so on, would reach the country. 

Lively trading in imports also continued throughout the Islamic period 
in such wares as perfumes and medicaments. We have seen above that 
Palestine also served as a way-station for trading certain goods, such as the 
halilaj (myrobalan) and others. One should also add here the kuhl (anti¬ 
mony, pukh in Hebrew). Abraham the Fourth b. Samuel the Third (b. 
Hosha‘na) writes from Ramla to Solomon b. Judah injerusalem and asks 
him to send him ‘a bit of kuhl to remove the white film in his small 
daughter’s eye’; from which we understand that in Ramla the kuhl had 
been sold out. It was imported from the Maghrib; Nehorai b. Nissim tried 


18 The Jewish market injerusalem: 1 , b, line 12; 92 , a, line 36. Ramla: 213 , line 30, Tiberias, 
245 , lines 6-7; 247 , line 23; see the episode of Ibrahim ibn Fadanj: 457 , b, lines 8-9. On 
market days see: Ibn Masawayh, 253ff; ct. Graf, Geschicte, II, 113f (erroneously there: the 
market day of jund Filastln was on the 13th of April; should be on the 23rd); BIrunI, 310. 
Arculf, in Tobler et Molinier, I, 144: ‘diversarum gentium undique prope innumera 
multitudo ... ad commercia’; Israel b. Nathan: 482 , a, lines 13-14. 

242 



IMPORTS [SECS. 353-358] 

to market it in Jerusalem but was sorely disappointed to find the selling 
price so low. 

Another item mentioned in the Geniza documents is the baqam, brazil¬ 
wood, referred to in a letter from Ascalon. It appears that the writer is 
interested in importing some, if the price is reasonable. The baqam is the 
dalbergia, brought from India and used for red colouring and also as a 
remedy for diarrhoea, apart from being used in carpentry. Traders were 
also interested in purchasing suit ‘anzanlt, which is sarcocolla, from which 
a medicament for healing wounds and eye-infections was derived. A 
shipment of dried clove bark - qirfa qaranjul - was requested from Pal¬ 
estine, and the supplier in Fustat warns the interested merchant that it is a 
very expensive item. In Ramla, a box of khiyar shanbar, ‘senna pods’ i.e. 
cassia, a remedy for constipation imported from Egypt, is offered for sale. 
The Jerusalemite ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, whom we know as the owner 
of a shop, asks Abiathar ha-Kohen (on 15 April 1071) to bring him two 
mantis (slightly more than \ 'h kilos) of tinkar (Persian, borax) from Fustat. 
Zadok ha-Kohen b. Elijah, writing in 1056 from Jerusalem to Fustat, 
evidently to his brother Abiathar, asks him to make every possible effort 
to sort out with the ‘representative known as b. Sha'ya’, that is, with the 
person who was apparently the ‘representative of the merchants’ in Fustat, 
the matter of the shemen mejuttam which was oil combined with perfume 
essences, evidently awaited in Jerusalem. Qajar, sea-tar, though found in 
abundance on the shores of the Dead Sea, is requested by Israel b. Nathan 
from Egypt, particularly the kind produced in Alexandria, for his sickly 
eyes. It was apparently the accepted practice to call it qajf al-Yahud, i.e. the 
Jews’ tar. Another import in the category of scents was the ‘ud, the aloe, 
which I have already referred to above. Isaac b. David b. Sughmar writes 
about this item (ca. 1045) to his partner Abu Sa‘Id Makhluf b. Azariah in 
Jerusalem, after selling part of their stock of aloe, while retaining part of it 
in Fustat; it appears from the letter that it is not worth exporting from 
there, as there is an enormous demand for it among the Byzantines, who 
even purchase its saw-dust. 19 

[354] Various jewels are mentioned in the Geniza letters from Palestine. 

19 See Couret: La Palestine, 219ff on imports to Palestine before the Muslim period, and 
references therein. Abraham ‘the fourth’: 230, line 12; in the continuation, lines 19-20, he 
recalls something else:'. . . and if you, ourGaon, will remember to send a bit of halilaj, for 
it cannot be found here’. Kuhl from the Maghrib: 426, lines 22, 4, 9 (fpitkh. known as 
kuhl’), Nehorai: 500, a, lines 25f; see on kuhl: Goitein, Pareja Jubilee Volume, 1, 349n. 1. The 
letter from Ascalon: 487, upper margin; see on baqam: Zohary, 264: the genus of the 
Dalbergieae; Ducros, 55, Hematoxylon Campechianum L.; Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 
45. In the Mishna Commentary ascribed to Nathan, av of the yeshiva, to Sukka, 4, it is said 
of the eshkero'a that it is baqam; suit ‘anzarut: 485, a, line 17, and see ibid, in the footnote. 
Qirfa qaranjul, ibid., b, lines 1-2, 8, and also the footnote. Khiyar shanbar: 445, lines 15f; see 
Maimonides, ' Uqqdr, No. 387, and p. 194: Cassia fistula (senna). The term in the letter is 


243 



THE ECONOMY 


Israel b. Nathan indicates in his letter to Nehorai b. Nissim that the 
demand for mirjan, little pearls, is limited but nevertheless he advises him 
to bring some to Jerusalem with him (from which we may assume that 
Nehorai intended to make a pilgrimage to Jerusalem), where he might 
come across some ‘ajarn who would buy it - undoubtedly with the 
pilgrims in mind. The pearls were apparently imported from the Magh¬ 
rib, as one can surmise from another of Israel b. Nathan’s letters, in which 
he blames Labrat (of the Sughmar family) for the marred colour of the 
pearls he supplied. It is implied that he was returning them to Fustat and he 
asks that they be sold there and in exchange, to buy ‘aqiq, carnelians, on his 
behalf. According to al-Jahiz, and also SuyutI, who cites al-Kalbl, the 
meaning of mirjan is little pearls, and the Yemen excelled in them. The 
carnelians were usually set in rings. Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon, while 
still av-bet-din, wishes to invest money in carnelians and he asks Avon b. 
Sedaqa, who lives injerusalem, to write to Nehorai b. Nissim and ask him 
to buy carnelians for him in Fustat. In the year 1057, we have an order 
from Fustat for sixty lined boxes made of fine gold, to be sent to Tyre as 
soon as possible. We also find evidence of trading in zinc ( tutiya ), which 
was imported from Fustat. 20 

[355] Whereas olive oil ( zayt tayyib ), as we have seen, was among the 
products exported from Palestine, lighting oil was imported from Egypt, 
where it was extracted from the seeds of radiciflorous plants, particularly 
from the Cruciferae; indeed it was actually called zayt bizr - ‘seed oil’. 
Musa b. Ya'qub in 1057 orders ajar of this oil from Fustat. In a letter 
written by Moses b. Jacob injerusalem in June 1053, we come across an 
order for Egyptian products. He asks for a quarter of a mithqal (a little more 
than a gram) of myrobalan ( halilaj kabilT) to be used as a medicine, rush 
mats ( samar ) which should be bought in Alexandria and are intended for 
the maghdra , the synagogue injerusalem. In Fustat, one should buy five 
rath of qirmiz shaduni, which is the crimson produced in Shadhuna in 
Spain. He also orders seven rath of fine coloured silk made in Constanti¬ 
nople (ham qustantini masbugh). In addition, he enquires after the price of 
raw hides in Fustat and whether it is possible to ship them from Egypt to 

Persian: khiyar — cucumber; shanbar = canbar, round; cf. Loew, II, 408; Ducros 57f; 
Zohary, 244; Ibn MammatT, 250, mentions it is frequently to be found in markets in Adar 
and Nisan (March and April). Tinkar: 455, line 25. Shemeti mejuttam (as in the Talmudic 
sources): 432, lines 14F; see Sefer hasidim, 152: mefattem besdmim, in the same meaning, of 
mixing scents in oil. Ben Sha‘ya is apparently Joshua b. Sha‘ya, the father of Abu‘l-Fadl 
Sahl b. Joshua b. Sha'ya, mentioned in 577, a, lines 26-27, cf. on this family: Goitein, 
Mediterranean Society, III, 9f. Qajdr: see the Hebrew Index and especially 482, b, line 13; qajr 
al-Yahiid: KhalidI, 56; ‘lid: 485, a, lines 7f. 

20 Pearls: 477, lines 3—5; 481, a, line7; b, lines 1—2. ‘Aqiq: ibid., a, line 9. Jahiz, Tabassur, 329; 
SuyutI, Itkdn, I, 134. The use of carnelians: Ibn Babawayh, Thawdb, 168f: Avonb. Sedaqa: 
498, a, lines 12-14. Boxes of gold: 514, lines lOf. Zinc: 496, b, line 6. 


244 



IMPORTS [SECS. 353-358] 


Palestine without incurring damage. In one of his letters, Avon b. Sedaqa 
mentions wooden and copper objets d’arts imported from Tyre (undoubt¬ 
edly after being shipped by sea) to Jerusalem. The Karaite Mahbub b. 
Nissim had wares which he had bought in Alexandria and shipped by sea 
in order to sell them in Ladhiqiyya, but when he altered his plans and 
debarked in Palestine, he managed to sell them in Ramla. Barhun b. Musa 
al-Tahirtl, while staying in Jerusalem, orders 50 pieces of sttst silk muthal- 
lath (triple-layered), embroidered with letters ( munammaq ) and also cloth¬ 
ing for a merchant in Ramla, and what he does not succeed in selling there, 
will be sent to Tyre. The goods would have to arrive during Tishri, for in 
Marheshwan he intended to travel fromjerusalem to Damascus. Israel b. 
Nathan also refers to the matter of importing textiles; he notes that in 
Jerusalem there is a call for light fabrics in black and blue, as well as most 
other colours, with the exception of purple, which the Jerusalemites do 
not take to, although in Ramla or Ascalon, perhaps, there may be some 
demand for it. Mention is also made of imports of clothing and fabrics 
from Sicily. Abraham b. Isaac al-AndalusI, writing in ca. 1052 from 
Jerusalem to his partner Joseph b. ‘All ha-Kohen FasI, warns him not to 
send shipments of clothes to be sold in Palestine, because the country is full 
of armed troops ( ahdath ) and no one dares to open a shop. 21 

[356] Flax and flax products were among the notable imports into 
Palestine. ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel bought a bale of flax (ruzma kattan) in 
Tyre with the intention of bringing it to Ramla. The package was delayed 
en route and part of it went astray. His brother-in-law (or son-in-law) Hiba 
b. Isra’Il was also importing linen and this seems to have been the major 
commodity in ‘Eli ha-Kohen’s shop injerusalem. The extensive import of 
flax from Egypt is reflected in a number of letters in my collection, such as 
those of Nissim b. Halfon of Tyre, in which figure details concerning 
packaging and the various chores involved in the shipping and releasing of 
goods from the port. Similarly, the letter of Solomon b. Moses al- 
Safaqusi, from Jerusalem, regarding three loads of flax which Nehorai 
promised to send him; or Abraham b. Isaac al-Andalusi’s letter, also from 
Jerusalem. The latter came to Jerusalem via Tinnls, Ascalon (that is, by 
sea) and Ramla, and notes that on leaving Ascalon (i.e. some days prior to 

21 Lighting oil: 514 , line 18; cf. Gil, JNES, 34(1975), 65f; Moses b. Jacob: 460 , b, lines 7f. 
Qinniz: Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 417, n. 21: Spanish crimson; cf. al-Jahiz, Ta- 
bassur, 339: it is said that qirmiz is a grass in which there is a red worm, and it is found in 
Andalus, apart from Persia; no one knows where those grasses are to be found except for a 
group of Jews; see also Maqqarl, 1, 187: the qirmiz is a gift from heaven bestowed on 
Andalus and is found on oak trees; cf. Seijeant, AI, 15-16(1951), 35, 70, who mentions 
qirmiz from Shadhuna. In Byzantium, silk production and trade were in Jewish hands. See 
Starr, Jews, No. 173. Lopez, Speculum, 20(1945), 23f; Avon: 503 , a, lines 12-13, Mahbub: 
292 . Barhun b. Musa: 458 , a, lines 17ff. Israel b. Nathan: 472 , a, 477 . Sicily: 492 , a, lines 
14f, and also in the continuation. Abraham b. Isaac: 504 , a, lines 17ff. 


245 



THE ECONOMY 


writing the letter), all the ships had already set off for Tinrris and other 
places in order to load flax. The demand for flax was particularly great in 
Ascalon, more so than anywhere else in Palestine, and there was interest 
even in the scraps of the flax. The import of flax from Egypt was undoubt¬ 
edly one of the major sources of the Jewish, Maghribi and other mer¬ 
chants’ incomes, as well as that of their clerks and agents who handled the 
goods in the ports of Palestine and Syria. This can also be understood from 
documents of the yeshiva, such as a fragment of a letter from Solomon b. 
Judah, in which he mentions the legacy of a certain Jacob, who was a 
partner in some flax transactions. 22 

[357] As is known, the country growing flax on the widest scale was 
Egypt, and evidently a rather large portion of its import into Palestine was 
in the form of raw material. Manufactories and workshops in Palestine 
were engaged in all the stages of producing the various linen fabrics, in 
spinning, weaving and dyeing. We have seen above the matter of shipping 
threads to Tyre for finishing. This took place in spite of the fact that during 
Fatimid times, a textile industry had developed in Egypt as well, especially 
in the days ofal-‘Aziz (975—996). Also, the production of the fabric known 
as tabart (after Tabaristan) was started in Ramla. We have no detailed 
account describing the treatment of the raw flax imported from Egypt or 
of its varieties, but it seems that one of the major requirements was that it 
should be properly combed. Meir ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli asks his brother 
Tobiah, who lives in Fustat, to see to it that the flax he is about to ship to 
him has been combed. 23 


22 ‘Eli ha-Kohen: 446, lines 7—8. Hiba: 455, line 26. Nissim b. Halfon: 489, a, line 6f. 
Solomon b. Moses: 490, a, lines 15f. Abraham b. Isaac: 505, lines 7f (ca. 1065); Goitein, 
Letters, 288, n. 7; Solomon b. Judah: 156, a, line 14; see also the query addressed to Daniel 
b. Azariah (in January 1059), where the matter of exporting flax to Sicily figures, four 
loads that were to have been against ‘amala, that is, a share in the revenue; part of the flax 
was seized in Tripoli of Libya (see: 396); on 'amala, see Goitein, Mediterranean Society l, 184; 
445, n. 4. 

23 See: Ibn Zafir, 35: in al-‘Aziz’ times, they began to produce fabrics with signs on them 
(muthaqqal) in Egypt, coloured turbans, ornate (mu'allam) and gilded dabiqi cloth, siqlatun 
and 'attdbi weaves, and also dealt in all kinds of shrinkings (qasdra): the editor’s note on 
p. 189, ibid, is misleading for Tabari does not mean ‘from Tiberias’, but rather from 
Tabaristan; on siqlatun see: Gil, ha-Tustarim, 31f, and ibid, references; cf. Ibn al-Jawzi, 
Akhbdr, 79: a white tabart clothing was bought for 400 dirhams, but it turned out to be qithi 
(from Quhistan, the ‘land of the mountains’, west of the Great Desert, see Le Strange, 
Lands, 352f; dabiqi, the name comes from Dabiq in Egypt, near Tinnis, which was a centre 
for the manufacture of superior quality linen fabrics, see: Tha‘a)ibl, Lata’if 227; Mez, 432; 
see also Hilal al-Sabl, 327, on a cadi who appeared before the wazir ‘All ibn ‘Isa, dressed in 
a robe of superior quality dabiqi that cost him 100 dinars, he said; Tanukhi, Nishwar, 1, 29: 
the same story; it cost him 200 dinars; and it was dabiqi shustari, that is, they made an 
imitation of the Egyptian dabiqiin Tustar, Persia; see also Canard, AIEO, 10(1952), 372, n. 
31; who states that the dabiqi was linen embroidered with silk and golden thread; ‘attabi, 
after the ‘Attabiyun quarter in west Baghdad, named for ‘Attab b. Usayd, the great- 


246 



IMPORTS [SECS. 353-358] 


[358] Another important branch in the area of imports was the silk 
trade. It is mentioned repeatedly in letters in my collection. Daniel b. 
Azariah dealt in silk before he became Gaon of Palestine and it is quite 
possible that he did not set this activity aside afterwards. In one letter, he 
refers to thirty small rath (rutaylas ) of unravelled silk from the Ghawta 
(/ham manqud ghawtT), meaning the Ghawta in the Damascus region. We 
have already encountered Barhun b. Musa al-Tahirti, on the verge of 
importing fifty pieces of susi silk. Isma‘11 b. Isaac al-Andalusi, writing in 
around 1065, mentions ibrisam khurasam, that is, silk from Khurasan 
brought from the Maghrib to Tyre, which remained there with the cadi, 
and which he intends to send to Egypt. Isaac b. David b. Sughmar also 
refers to the silk trade, when writing from Fustat to his partner Makhluf b. 
Azariah in Jerusalem (ca. 1045). His brother Joseph, who appears to be 
staying in Jerusalem as well, informed him that he received two bolts of 
silk and that he had differences with the purchaser; they seem to be 
speaking of silk from the Maghrib. Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevorakh 
worked hard preparing ceremonial attire for the Nasi, David b. Daniel, 
and stresses in his letter from Ascalon (ca. 1090) that he had requested 
superior quality silk threads (ghazl raft') but did not get them and therefore 
could not order thawb mulham, that is, fabric whose warp is of silk, and that 
he must make do with thawb muqarran, a fabric which is a mixture of silk 
and cotton, as we surmise from his remarks. The expensive silks, such as 
the khurasam, would arrive mainly from the Orient, in caravans from 
regions of Persia, via Aleppo (they would travel in caravans in cultivated 
and well-inhabited regions - not only in desert areas - for greater security, 
naturally). Joseph b. Sahl al-Baradanl complains in a letter that it is two 
months since the last arrival of caravans from Aleppo and hence the price 
of Persian fabric has risen to three or more dinars the parcel. He also 
mentions ArjishI weaves (or clothing?) in his letter (Arjish was an Ar¬ 
menian city north of Lake Wan, also called Lake Arjish). 24 

grandson of Umayya- there they made a linen mixed with silk, see: Qari, 202; Canard, 
Jaudhar, 45, n. 11; combed linen: 612, a, lines 20, 22, 23. 

24 Daniel b. Azariah: 354, line 3, cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 104; as to Damascus, at 
that time it evidently was a centre for the manufacture of all kinds of silks and elegant 
clothes and official robes ( khal'a ) intended for the use of the rulers and their appointees; 
evidence of the existence of state workshops based on the enforced stationing of artisan- 
weavers in Damascus can be seen in 291, a letter from a Karaite who was compelled to 
adhere to the weaving craft (he mentions that the artisans were all Jews); this was 
undoubtedly the type of workshop called tirdz, a word meaning firstly embroidery, and it 
was so called because of the embroidery along the edges of the fabric; cf. Idris! (Cerulli), 
369, on the manufacture of silk in Damascus, on the khazz and the dibaj, which imitate the 
beauty of Byzantine silk and are equal to the fabrics of Tustar and Isfahan and the tirdz of 
Naysabur; see Goitein, JQR , NS 45(1954/5), 34f, who quotes from the Babylonian 
Talmud, Ber. 56a: tardzaye de-malka, ‘the royal embroiderers’; see also on tirdz: Gil, 
ha-Tustartm, 21f, 32; we have evidence from the tenth century of the existence of such a 
workshop in Tiberias, ‘of the elite’ or ‘the aristocrats’ (tirdz al-khassa), from an inscription 


247 



THE ECONOMY 


The representative of the merchants 

[359] In letters dealing with imports and exports, we come across a 
special type of official, ‘the merchants’ representative’ (waktl al-tujjar). We 
have few facts on the nature of the office but it is evident that the 
merchants’ representative was appointed by the Muslim authorities and 
that in every important urban centre, there was an official of this kind. In 
my collection, we encounter them in Ramla, Tiberias, Tyre and quite 
frequently, in Fustat. We find in Nissim b. Halfon’s letters from Tyre 
some revealing hints as to the characteristics of this office. The writer is in 
Tyre on commercial business and he is dealing with the release of goods 
from the port as well as purchasing others. It seems that the merchants’ 
representative is holding the income from the sales, freeing the money 
only on instructions from the merchants themselves, so the writer is 
asking Nehorai b. Nissim and Abu Nasr Solomon b. Saadia b. Saghir to 
send an instruction of release. In a letter from Joseph b. Sahl al-Baradanl, 
we read of the death of Abu ‘All Husayn b. Yunus. He also mentions ‘that 
it was decided to send a representative ( waktl ) to Palestine’; apparently he is 
speaking here of the merchants’ representative in Ramla, who is evidently 
Abu ‘All al-waktl, better known by the nickname Ibn al-Sufi, and who is 
mentioned in a letter of ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, dealing with some 
obscure affair related to the appointment of a wakil and perhaps also 
speaking of the merchants’ representative. Siba‘, the representative men¬ 
tioned in a court record from the time of Josiah Gaon, is the merchants’ 
representative in Ramla at the time ( ca. 1010). His successor in Ramla is 
Abu’l-Barakat Khalafb. Joseph al-Hulaybl (or SovI; Hulayb is the dimin¬ 
utive - or perhaps also a term of ridicule - of Halab, Aleppo, which is 
Sova; i.e. his father hailed from Aleppo). In a letter from Hillel he-haver b. 
Yeshu'a ha-hazan, the merchants’ representative in Tiberias, Saadia ha- 
Levi b. Moses, is mentioned. Sums of money have been deposited with 
him and a money order ( diydqne) has to be sent from Fustat in order to 
receive them. We have already met with the merchants’ representative in 
Tyre, Halfon (Khalaf) b. Moses b. Aaron, who was also called Ibn Abi 

marking its foundation, which is now in the Benaki Museum, Athens, see: Repertoire 
chronologique, IV, No. 1542 (pp. 173f). Khurasan!silk: 510, b, lines6f; cf. Goitein, ibid., 60. 
Isaac b. David: 485, a, lines 22-23, and margin. Nathan ha-Kohen: 585, lines Ilf; they 
called fine silk raji' and it seems that the threads cost more than a dinar-and-a-half per rail: 
see TS 8.60, lines 2-3: the price of ten rati s of raJV silk was seventeen dinars. See editor’s 
note 4 in Tha’alibI, Lata’if, 227'. Thawb mulham, see: Dozy, Supplement, II, 530, cf. 
Serjeant, At, 9(1942), 71, n. 19. Joseph b. Sahl: 491, in the beginning; on the caravans, cf. 
Goitein, Mediterranean Society, 1, 276. Arjlsh, see: Le Strange, Lands, 183. Nissim b. Halfon 
also mentions Persian cloth, as well as Arjish! and others he intends to buy, in his letter 
from Tyre, 489, a, lines 19f; b, lines 5f; see also 494, lines 5, 7, on a shipment of qatarsh that 
reached Tyre; these were crude silk threads (in Italian: catarzo). Cf. Goitein, Mediterranean 
Society, I, 104; 418, n. 27. 


248 



SEAFARING [SECS. 360-362] 


Qida. The merchants’ representative in Fustat, who was in close contact 
with the Palestinians, was Abu Nasr Mevorakh (Muhassin) b. Husayn, 
known by a nickname relating to his mother’s brother, Sham’an: ‘Ibn ukht 
(son of the sister of) ShanTan’, who was among the leaders of the ‘Pal¬ 
estinian’ community in Fustat. One can assume that one of this official’s 
duties would have been to collect the taxes due on imports (the 'ushr), and 
this was apparently the reason why the rulers were involved in their 
appointment. 25 


Seafaring 

[360] A very large part of Palestine’s external trade was carried out via 
the sea, and the major port for this purpose was evidently Tyre. From the 
Geniza documents, it appears that the cadi of Tyre, who together with his 
offspring came to be the independent ruler of the town from 1063 until 
1089, was a ship-owner whose ships sailed the Mediterranean. He main¬ 
tained close business contacts with the Jewish Maghribi merchants who 
engaged in exporting and importing from Palestine. The cadi’s house in 
Tyre served as a mercantile centre and a meeting-place for shippers. Daniel 
b. Azariah, the Jerusalem Gaon, was also in touch with him, and in one of 
his letters to his close friend Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac b. Furat, he 
writes ‘. .. you are well aware ... of what I explained in my letter from 
Tyre ... that the one who turned the honourable cadi Abu Muhammad 
... against me, and in his presence, said things I have no knowledge of. . . ’ 
Jewish partners would come to the Tyre cadi to validate their business 
agreements. In another document, the ship of the cadi ibn Abl ‘ AqTl is 
mentioned as having arrived in Tyre after sailing from Alexandria. Israel 
b. Nathan writes to Nehorai from Jerusalem, informing him that there is 
talk in the city that ibn Abi ‘ Aqil’s ships have already sailed from Egypt - 
this may be hinting at the delay in their departure owing to differences 
with the Egyptian authorities. In one letter, we find the cadi making a 
claim against one of the merchants for the sum of five dinars, but it is not 

25 Nissim b. Halfon: 489 , b, lines 4—5. Joseph b. Sahl: 491 , lines lOf. ‘Eli ha-Kohen: 453 . 
Siba‘: 30 , line 8. Abu'l-Barakat Khalaf: 329 , III, lines 6-7; 507 , b, line 6; 445 , line 12. 
Tiberias: 255 , margin. Halfon b. Moses: see the Hebrew Index. Mevorakh b. Husayn: see 
the Hebrew Index, and him as one of the leaders of the community in 319 , line 5; see in 62 , 
lines 9-11, details concerning his family; cf. Goitein, Baron Jubilee Volume, 518f; in TS NS 
264.5v (in the hand of Yefet b. David b. Shekhania), line 5, he is mentioned together with 
Ephraim b. Shemaria (= b. al-GhazzI), Nathan al-Andalusi, Salama ra’s al-kull (— Solo¬ 
mon rosh kalla ), and others: it is possible that this Mevorakh (Muhassin) was the son of 
Abu ‘Alt Husayn b. Yunus, and one can therefore assume that he held an office similar to 
that of his father, but in Fustat. See the exhaustive discussion on the office of representative 
of the merchants: Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 186-192; cf. Cahen, JESHO, 12(1969), 
217, claiming that wakil al-tujjar was not the merchants’ representative, or head of their 
guild, but the representative of the authorities, supervising imports on their behalf. 


249 



THE ECONOMY 


clear whether this is for the transport of goods or for port taxes. Bothjews 
and Muslims helped this merchant and stood as his guarantors for fifteen 
days, until a statement arrived from Abu Nasr (evidently Mevorakh 
[Muhassin] b. Husayn, Ibn ukht Sham'an, the merchants’ representative 
in Fustat) that the goods should be released, or until he would manage to 
sell the goods and acquire cash. The merchants would sometimes store 
their merchandise at the cadi’s house, such as the ibrtsam (silk) which 
Isma‘il b. Isaac speaks of. Nasir Khusraw, who visited Tyre some fifteen 
years before the aforementioned Maghribi merchants’ letters were writ¬ 
ten, notes that the cadi of Tyre, Ibn Abi ‘Aqll, was a rich man of good 
character. He also points out that he was a Sunni. 26 

[361] We get some idea of realities in the port of Tyre from Nissim b. 
Halfon, Nehorai b. Nissim’s agent. He describes in a letter the troubles 
caused him by a certain Ibn al-Wasiti, with whom he apparently brought 
goods to Tyre. They quarrelled about the packing charges as well as 
bundles of flax which were missing in the shipment, for there seems to 
have been an epidemic of thefts in the port. In addition, he complains 
bitterly of the government clerks and customs ( kharaj ) officials. From the 

26 Daniel b. Azariah: 357 , b, lines lOf; the mention of Tyre in this passage indicates that the 
cadi of Tyre is being referred to and not the Fatimid wazlr, the cadi al-Yazuri (see on him 
below), whose nickname was also Abu Muhammad. Confirmation of partnership by the 
Tyre cadi: 276 , a, line 12: ‘the judge who resides in the city of Tyre’; the cadi’s ship: 506 , b, 
lines If; Isma‘Il b. Farah writes from Alexandria to Nehorai b. Nissim expressing his 
delight that the cadi ‘Ayn al-Dawla’s ship arrived in Tyre safely, see TS 13 J 16, f. 19, a, 
lines 7f. Israel b. Nathan: 471 , a. line 14. Nehorai b. Nissim writes from Fustat tojoseph 
ha-Kohen b. ‘Alt al-Fasi, who stays in Tyre but who had previously written to him from 
Ramla; Nehorai confirms the receipt of the letter which contains the same information as 
above: the cadi’s ship is returning to Tyre and the aforementioned Joseph is on his way 
there, apparently to await it; see: 508 , a, lines 4-5. Musa b. Ya'qub, writing from 
Damascus on 31 January 1055, asks Abu’l-‘Ala Joseph b. Da’ud b. Sha'ya in Fustat to 
write to the cadi (that is, to Ibn Abi ‘Aqll) regarding a shipment of their goods in Tyre, see: 
TS NS J 463. The claim for money: 518 ; Eliash, Sefimot, 2(1957/8), 10, did not locate the 
letter or its circumstances correctly and there is no foundation for his assumption that 
Hesed (Abu Nasr) the Tustari is being referred to. Isma‘11 b. Isaac: 510 , b, lines 9f. Also in 
TS 12.666, a letter to Fustat to Ephraim b. Shemaria, apparently from Qayrawan, the cadi 
Ibn Abi ‘Aqll is mentioned, see a, lines 17, 19; the writer is a man who has business 
relations with Ephraim (medicaments, perfumes and spices); in that same letter, he asks 
Ephraim to send him the tractate Sukka from the Palestinian Talmud. Nasir Khusraw, 14 
(text), 46-47 (translation). The cadi was a contemporary of al-Khattb al-Baghdadl; they 
met and the cadi communicated to him ( akhbarana , perhaps wrote to him) a hadlth praising 
Abu Bakr and ‘Umar, the righteous veterans of Paradise, another proof of his being a 
Sunni; see al-Khatib, Ta 'rikh, XIV, 216. Cf. also on the cadi Ibn Abi ‘Aqll: Ashtor, CCM, 
18(1975), 125. Benjamin of Tudela (Adler), 20f, who visited Tyre under the Crusaders, 
still admires its port, the only one of its kind in the world; and it is interesting that 
according to him, there were Jewish ship-owners there; cf. Prawer, ha-salvantm, 321. In 
the documents of my corpus there is no mention ofjewish ship-owners, apart from Ezra 
b.Joseph b. Ibrahim al-Nakliiida, i. e. the captain or owner of the ship. This Ezra was one of 
the Karaites whose signatures are found on 302 , lines 21 f, and we learn from this that his 
grandfather was a captain or ship-owner. 


25O 



SEAFARING [SECS. 360-362] 

letter of a contemporary, Jacob b. Isma‘il, we learn that bribery in the port 
was an accepted practice; of course the bribe was then deducted from the 
profits by the agents or the partner. In this letter, we also find an itemised 
list of his expenses while unloading the flax from the ship: the charge for 
releasing the goods ( tajrlgh ), porters, arranging in stacks, repair (?) and 
customs and an advance (apparently to one of the partners to enable him to 
purchase other goods in the interim). 

A letter written by Barhun b. Musa al-Tahirti also contains instructions 
on the loading of a shipment of wool; it should be placed on stones, not 
directly on the deck of the ship, in order that the air can also flow beneath 
it, and it should be covered with cloth. Jacob b. Joseph b. Isma‘il al- 
Itrabulusi also mentions that he did not manage to get packing sheets for 
the shipment of sumach he was asked to send from Ascalon and this is 
what prevented him from purchasing a large amount. 

Evidence of the hazards of shipping by sea we find in a letter ofjacob b. 
Salman al-Hariri mentioned earlier, who was aboard a ship when a storm 
swept across the Mediterranean. This is not surprising considering that 
this journey took place on the eve of winter (Jacob writes from Ramla on 
the 8th of Tevet after this sea-going adventure). Some of the goods on 
board had to be thrown into the sea, the ship lost its sails and its helm, and 
the ‘ushari (Nile boat) on which they were sailing, turned into a sort of 
ma‘diyya (rowboat). Everything was soaked and the cargo destroyed. 
Apart from all this, there was the danger of Byzantine warships, described 
in Nehorai b. Nissim’s account of ships seized by the Byzantines, in his 
letter from Fustat to Jerusalem. He becalms his correspondent by telling 
him that he did not have goods aboard one of the ships. Isma'il b. Isaac 
al-AndalusI writing from Tyre, speaks of his misadventures during the 
voyage and the losses it occasioned, though he takes it all in good part (and 
with theodicy), mentioning that in comparison with ‘most people’s mis¬ 
haps at sea, my own was slight’. He also states that he is about to go on a 
pilgrimage to Jerusalem. In a letter of Avon b. Sedaqa written on the 11 
November 1064, we came across a passage which seemingly hints at the 
destruction of the entire trade. He gave a letter to the head of the yeshiva 
from Nehorai b. Nissim wherein he writes ‘on the business, generally, 
that is, the state of the ships and the people arriving on them, and the news 
from Sicily and the burning of ships and the impoverishment of our 
people. . . ’ 27 

[362] Muqaddasi connects the subject of seafaring with the story of 

27 Nissim b. Halfon: 489 , a, lines 3—18. Jacob b. Isma‘11, 494 , a, line 13; 495 , a, lines lOf. 
Barhun b, Musa: 458 , a, lines 15f. Jacob b. Joseph, 487 , a, lines 21f. Jacob b. Salman; 507 , 
a, lines 3f; 'ushari, in line 5 and see the note there. Nehorai: 509 , line 9. Isma‘Il b. Isaac: 510 , 
a, lines 12f; cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 332. Avon: 500 , a, lines 20f. 


251 



THE ECONOMY 


the building of the port of Acre. According to him the port was not 
fortified at all until Ibn Tulun’s times (end of the ninth century). This is 
actually evidence that during the Abbasid period, the port was completely 
neglected and ships would not come there because of the lack of security. 
Only when Egypt became a semi-independent body, as it were, and 
extended its authority over Palestine, did the development of shipping 
begin to take shape. In Muqaddasi’s words, the difference between the 
port of Tyre and that of Acre was marked. When Ibn Tulun decided to 
recreate the latter, there were considerable problems in trying to find 
craftsmen who knew how to build a port, which is work carried out in the 
water, until the expertise of Abu Bakr al-Banna’ (‘the builder’) became 
known. Abu Bakr is none other than Maqaddasi’s grandfather. He was 
approached through the good offices of the governor ofjerusalem (where 
this expert lived) appointed by Ibn Tulun. He set up a quay of sycamore 
beams across the entire width of the fortress on land. The beams were then 
fastened to each other above the water’s surface and an opening was left on 
the western side. On the beams, a strong structure made of courses of 
plastered stones was set up, connected by columns at every five layers. 
The wooden platform gradually sunk to the sea floor as the weight of the 
structure increased. This structure was then attached to the walls and to 
the ancient quay that was still standing. The opening was closed by a 
bridge, and during the night, ships would enter the port and the opening 
would be closed by a chain, as in Tyre. From then onwards, the enemy 
(the Byzantines) could not raid the ships any longer. 28 

Commercial methods 

[363] Merchants’ letters in my collection contain information on the 
ways in which trade was conducted in Palestine, the financing of business 
and the use of money. Much trading was done in partnership, and in 
almost every document we find people engaged in business jointly, either 
with partners or through agents. Sometimes it is difficult to discern 
whether it is a partner or an agent from Palestine who is writing to 
Nehorai b. Nissim or another of the Fustat merchants, giving an account 
of his actions - on business, goods, transport and prices, etc. - and 
awaiting information of the same order from Fustat. The trend was to 
constantly invest money in goods, to make money work, and not to set 
aside cash reserves. The only explanation for this is the simple desire for 

28 MuqaddasI, AqalTm, 162f; see a French translation of the passage: Nasir Khusraw, 49f, and 
an English one: Le Strange, Palestine, 328f; Yaqut, Buldan, III, 707f, copied this story and 
noted that in his time (the thirteenth century) the inscription was still there, with Abu Bakr 
al-Banna”s name. See the description of the port of Acre in Nasir Khusraw (March 1046), 
15 (text), 49f (translation). 


252 



COMMERCIAL METHODS [SECS. 363-366] 


profit—not the fear of a decrease in the value of the money, a process which 
was almost unknown throughout the entire period under discussion. 
Jacob b. Isma‘11 of Tyre writes to Nehorai b. Nissim in this manner: ‘lest a 
single dirham (of the deposit) of the partnership remain with you, buy 
whatever God inspires you to buy, and send it by the first ship. . . ’ We 
have also seen above that the priestly family who headed the Palestine 
yeshiva wanted to activate the yeshiva’s money by investing in carnelians 
{‘aqtq). Daniel b. Azariah also puts his money to work: a certain Abu’l-‘Ala 
al-Mubarak b. Isaac will carry out a transaction on his behalf for the sum of 
200 dinars. The addressee (whose name has not been preserved) is re¬ 
quested to pay the aforementioned Abu’l-‘Ala 50 dinars against a sujiaja, 
evidently an advance, or perhaps Daniel b. Azariah’s share in the deal. 
Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon shows an interest in his letter to 
Ephraim b. Shemaria, in the exact rate of the nuqra (a dirham with a large 
silver content) in Fustat. Later on, when he was already ‘Fourth at the 
yeshiva’, he also engages in trade and has a partner in Fustat, who wronged 
him in some manner. Elijah demands that he be excommunicated in Fustat 
and that Jerusalem should be informed of this, so that they should have a 
pretext to put a ban on him there as well, for the behaviour of this partner 
(we do not know his name) is contrary to the regulations of the Fustat 
community (which are not known to us). 29 

[364] Keeping money, when there was little opportunity of an immedi¬ 
ate business investment, presented a serious problem, both from the 
security angle and also out of fear of the authorities, who would confiscate 
hoards of gold (dinars) whenever possible. We have ample evidence of this 
in the sources. The greatest security was achieved by depositing money 
with Jews close to the throne. In the period which has provided most of 
our documentation, these were the Tustari brothers. Maqrfzi explicitly 
writes that the Tustaris had a good reputation for properly returning 
deposits secretly left with them by the merchants. I have already men¬ 
tioned the deposit held for a man of Tiberias, Joseph b. Asad, by Hesed 
al-Tustarl. Another aspect of these deposits can be seen in the hand¬ 
written lists of Barhun b. Musa al-Tahirtl on the reverse sides of two 
letters sent from Jerusalem to Fustat, to Isaac b. Jacob he-haver (Jacob 
he-haver b. Joseph lived in Aleppo), in which enormous sums deposited 
with various people, among them Abu Sa‘d (apparently Abraham al- 
Tustari) and more of Barhun’s property is mentioned, as well as 500 dinars 
held by Ibn Hayyim (evidently Sahlawayh, a relative of the Tustaris) 
since the days of al-Hakim (some thirty years earlier). These lists were 

29 Jacob b. Isma‘11: 495, b, lines 4f; cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society , I, 200. Daniel b. 

Azariah: 346. Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon: 413, lines 15f; nuqra : a dirham of 2 A silver and 'h 

copper; at that time, 22 nuqra dirhams were worth a dinar, see 176, margin; cf. Gil, 


253 



THE ECONOMY 


apparently drawn up after the killing of the Tustari brothers. The tend¬ 
ency to be secretive about commercial affairs and particularly to conceal 
the movement of cash from the eyes of the authorities, can also be seen in 
the request of Musa b. Ya'qub, writing from Tyre to his partnerjoseph b. 
David in Fustat, that the latter write his letters in Hebrew script, rather 
than in Arabic. 

In the Tyre of that time, one of those engaged in the sphere of finance 
and banking was Abu Mansur David (Da’ud) b. Solomon (Sulayman), 
known as Ibn Shu'ayb, and we find that he was also active in Damascus. 
Israel b. Nathan asks Nehorai b. Nissim to obtain a letter to this Abu 
Mansur, so that when he arrives in Tyre, he can collect two dinars from 
him with which to buy paper and to cover other expenses. However the 
letter was not sent, as we learn from a subsequent letter from Israel, who 
writes that as a result he was in dire straits in Tyre, until he was helped out 
by Abu Sa‘id (we do not in fact know to whom he was referring as there 
were a number of merchants who bore this nickname). Joseph b. Sahl 
al-Baradanl complains in his letter to Nehorai that the sujiaja for Israel b. 
Nathan did not reach this Abu Mansur b. Shu‘ayb, who was prepared to 
lend him two or three dinars ‘on account’ but afterwards changed his mind 
because he was doubtful as to the outcome. Jacob b. Samuel al-Andalusi, 
writing from Jerusalem to Joseph b. Nahum al-Baradani in Fustat, also 
hints at the fact that it was difficult to get money from the aforementioned 
Abu Mansur b. Shu'ayb, who seemed to have had his own standards. 
However, he proposed to Musa b. Ya'qub, who dealt in paper in Tyre and 
Damascus, 25 dinars and 2 qlrats on his own initiative. This Musa b. 
Ya'qub payed in two sufiajas in Tyre, evidently, the rather large sum of 
250 dinars on account, for the paper he was buying there. The money 
orders are drawn on someone in Fustat, perhaps his partner, Joseph b. 
Da’ud b. Sha'ya. 

Payment through money orders was very common amongst the mer¬ 
chants whose letters are included in my collection, that is, in the mid¬ 
eleventh century AD. Money for the Palestine yeshiva and for the poor of 
Jerusalem, as well as the sick people of Tiberias, was also generally sent in 
money orders, with the help of the financiers. Solomon b. Judah mentions 
money orders (he always calls them diydqne) in twelve of his letters, and in 
one he speaks of five or six orders from various individuals he is dealing 
with simultaneously. An important financier in Fustat, Abu Nasr Solo¬ 
mon b. Saadia b. Saghlr, was also engaged in transferring money from 
Fustat, such as passing on sums from the Jerusalemites in Fustat to Jerusa¬ 
lem through Ephraim b. Shemaria. However, alongside the relatively 

Documents, 407, n. 10 and further references there. The matter of the partner: Barhun b. 

Musa al-Tahirtl’s letter, 458 , b, lines 2-4. 

254 



COMMERCIAL METHODS [SECS. 363-366] 

common use of money orders, a great deal of cash was also in circulation as 
well as large amounts in precious metals, in coinage of gold and silver, and 
pouches (surra) of dinars and dirhams were transferred, as we learn from 
Joseph b. Yeshu'a al-Tarabulusf s letter to Nehorai about a deposit of coins 
which the latter had, reaching the holder (from Egypt) in such surras, 
containing waraq (cheap dirhams; 40 to the dinar), and also dinars. 30 

[365] We also encounter in our documents instances of one time part¬ 
nerships based on financial investment, in which the receiver of the money 
undertakes to buy certain merchandise and share the profits ( manfa'a ) with 
the investor. At times, such an arrangement would be made without 
anything put in writing, but merely on the basis of mutual trust. Solomon 
b. Semah of Ramla (Abu Bishr Solomon - Sulayman b. Semah al-‘Attar- 
a perfume dealer) retained 24 dinars belonging to his nephew ‘who gave 
them to him to buy with’ (goods), on condition that they share the profits. 
Abraham b. Meir al-AndalusI took them from him (apparently to trade 
with them on the same basis) ‘and neither the funds nor the profit was 
returned to him’. This form of one-time partnership was also commonly 
termed bi-qismi Allahi wa-rizqihi, ‘for whatever price God apportions as 
livelihood’; such as in the case of the deal contracted by Moses b. Judah 
ha-hazan ‘the westerner’ (of Sicily) who received various goods purchased 
with the money provided by Hasan ha-Kohen b. Salman al-Dallal (= the 
broker) on condition that Hasan would receive the usual ra’s mdl, that is the 
capital invested plus two-thirds of the profits, while one third would go to 
Moses. This system evidently differs from the ‘arnala, which is based on 
the seller receiving a fixed percentage of the profits. The Maghribi Salama 
ha-Kohen b. Joseph describes how he formed such a partnership with the 
Maghribi Abu Sa‘id Khalfa, the son-in-law of Yahya al-‘Amman! (from 
‘Amman); he met him on the road from Jerusalem to Ramla, on his way to 
Ascalon, and gave him five dinars to do with ‘as God helps’ until the end of 
the year, meaning the Muslim year, which then occurred in April. The 

30 MaqrizI, Khitat , II, 279; cf. Gil, ha-Tustanm, 34—37, and see there further references, 
especially additional sources from the Geniza relating to money deposited with the 
Tustaris; ibid. , also more details on Barhun b. Musa al-Tahirtl’s lists; see these lists in 463, 
b, and 464, b. Abraham al-Tustari was killed on 25 October 1047 and his brother, in the 
summer of 1049 or 1050 (seeGil, ibid., 411). Musab. Jacob: 517, b, line 12, Goitein, Letters, 
94, n. 13, assumed that the request to write in Hebrew script was intended to prevent lack 
of clarity stemming from the very cursive nature of the Arabic script and the absence of the 
diacritical signs. Israel b. Nathan: 474, a, lines 8—10; 476, a, Joseph b. Sahl: 492, a, lines 
9-12. Jacob b, Samuel: 493, b. Musab. Ya'qub: 515, lines 8—9; in TS NSJ 463, a letter from 
Damascus from this Musa, he again writes about the money he received from the 
aforementioned Abu Mansur and which has to be returned in Fustat to a certain Abu’l- 
Fadl. 250 dinars: 514, a, lines 4f. Solomon b. Judah: see particularly 76. Ephraim b. 
Shemaria: 326. See on the family of h. Saghir (= ‘the son of the little one’): Goitein, 
Mediterranean Society, III, 11; 428, n. 60; see also in the Hebrew Index: diydqne, sujiaja; the 
term diydqne is only to be found in Solomon b. Judah’s letters and those of his contempor- 


255 



THE ECONOMY 


agreement was made officially, at ‘the head’, that is, head of the yeshiva. 
Khalfa actually went to Ascalon, bought merchandise there and took it to 
Jerusalem — from there he went on to Ramla, informing Salama that the 
profit for the two months which had passed was one dinar but that he did 
not have the money. He promised to pay him when he returned to Ramla 
on the day after Passover but still had not paid, and Salama writing, in 
May 1054, asks Shemaiah he-haver b. Yeshu‘a, who lives injerusalem, to 
collect the debt. Another problematic partnership is also reflected in 
Abu’l-Rida ha-Kohen’s letter to his partner (whom he calls ‘brother’). 
Here the matter is the transport of goods fromjerusalem to Tiberias and 
the intention is that the partner would sell the goods on the way from Bet 
Shean or Nabulus, but he did not manage to do so, and Abu’l-Rida was 
forced to sell it in Tiberias at a loss, leaving him stranded and 
impoverished. 31 

[366] In those times, people worked hard at collecting debts due to 
them. A Jerusalemite whose identity is uncertain deals with collecting 
sums due to Isaac b. Jacob he-haver in Fustat. With some difficulty, he 
managed to extract five dinars from a certain Thabit, but only two of these 
were good (i.e., of full weight). This same Isaac (who for some reason had 
suffered severe losses) is owed other moneys injerusalem, and one of his 
debtors is a man who has left Jerusalem for Zoar. The writer tries to get a 
money order ( sujtaja ) on the five dinars from a certain al-Arrajam, who 
had collected them for Isaac, but in vain. It appears that Nehorai b. Nissim 


aries who were writing in Hebrew; in later letters, generally written in Arabic, they always 
use suftaja; Joseph b. Yeshu'a: 496, a, lines 13f. 

31 The matter of Solomon b. Semah: 159, lines Ilf; this is a letter from Solomon b. Judah to 
Abraham ha-Kohen b. Haggai in Fustat; a colophon on the title page of Bereshit rabbd 
shows that it belonged to Solomon b. R. §emah, of blessed memory, and was bought by 
Abraham b. Nathan Av, of blessed memory, and afterwards bought by Berakhot ha- 
Kohen b. Aaron, 'may he have a good end, known as b. al-Zahiri’; see ULC Or 1080, Box 
15, f. 33. Solomon b. Semah was one of the retainers of Josiah Gaon and thereafter of 
Solomon b. Judah; he was an occasional scribe and some documents in my corpus are in his 
handwriting. BM Or 5561 , f. 1 is a fragment of a court document pertaining to the legacy 
of that Abraham b. Meir; Abraham’s son, Samuel, is mentioned there. Nathan b. Samuel 
‘the Spaniard’ appears in court, showing a deed of attorney written in Granada, in which 
he is appointed trustee of the legacy of the aforementioned Joshua b. Nathan. From the 
part of the document which has been preserved, it may be understood that Abraham b. 
Meir was involved in commerce on a large scale and wished to ensure that after his death, 
his property would be secure from being ‘seized by the ruler who governs Egypt’, who, it 
implied, was in the habit of taking over the properties of‘deceased aliens’. The document 
also contained details on the deceased’s business matters in Palestine. Among others, with 
someone ‘living in Zoar’. Moses b. Judah: 394, 395, where the expression bi’l-qism 
wa’l-rizq can be found, that is, as God metes out, that is, the income and provides profit or 
livelihood. See the same expression also in 508, b, line 7; 516, margin. Cf. on ‘amala and on 
qisrn wa-rizq, Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 183£F; and see ‘amala in 396, referring to the 
above-mentioned Moses b. Judah. Salama ha-Kohen: 525, a, lines 17f; on the dates, see the 
note to line 24. Abu’l-Rida: 527. 


256 



MEASURES AND COINS [SECS. 367-369) 

also owes him money. In about 1065 Isma'Il b. Issac al-Andalusi writes 
from Tyre to Nehorai b. Nissim in Fustat and encloses in his letter, among 
other business matters, a power-of-attorney formulated as a deed of 
trusteeship, to collect the sum of350 zuzTm (undoubtedly dirhams), due to 
him from Abu’l-Fadl Sahl b. Salama for a shipment of silk. If the matter is 
to come to court, he asks Nehorai to act as witness to the fact that it is 
indeed in his handwriting and that the power-of-attorney is valid. He 
hopes that there will be no need for this however, and that matters will be 
settled without having to resort to law. 32 

Measures and coins 

[367] Palestine had its own traditions as far as weights and measures 
were concerned and Muqaddasi found it fitting to devote an entire section 
to this subject. According to him, the people of Ramla used the qafiz, 
which was the equivalent of four waybas\ the wayba equalled two makkuk s; 
the makkuk was the equivalent of three kaylajas and the kaylaja equalled one 
and one-half sa‘. We know that the sd‘ contained ca. 4.2 litres, from which 
we deduce that the kaylaja was ca. 6.3 litres; the makkuk some 19 litres; the 
wayba some 38 litres and the qafiz some 152 litres. In the Geniza documents 
in my collection, we come across the wayba and the kaylaja but not the sa' 
or the makkuk. Muqaddasi states that the Jerusalemites used the mudt, 
which was two-thirds of a qafiz, that is, some hundred litres, and the qabb, 
which is a quarter of a mudt (ca. 25 litres; neither of these are to be found in 
the Geniza documents). As to weights, apart from the rati and the wiqiyya 
(equivalent to an ounce), which are well known, he mentions that the 
dirham, the usual weight of the coin so named, was 60 grains of barley 
(habba; we know that the common weight of the dirham was approxi¬ 
mately 3.1 grams). A sixth of a dirham was called daniq (a Persian word) 
and was worth ten habbas. The dinar weighed some 4.2 grams and was 
divided into 24 qirats; and qirdt was generally considered the equivalent of 
3.5 habbas (the qtrat, Greek keration, is the carob seed). 

The Jews of Palestine during this period still used the term trimis in their 
marriage deeds, which meant a third of a dinar, the trimision or tremissis 
which Theodosius I introduced in 383. We have already learned 
something of the coinage of the Umayyads and the renewed minting of 
coins in Palestine in their times. During the rule of the Abbasids, there 
seems to have been a complete halt to the local minting of money and this 
was started again only in the days of the Tulunids, when the mint in Ramla 

32 Debts in Jerusalem: 463 (and see there in a, lines 22, the Zoar matter), 464 . Nehorai himself 
is very busy collecting debts owed to Joseph ha-Kohen b. ‘All al-FasI, who is travelling in 
Palestine, see 508 , b, line 4. Isma'tl b. Isaac: 510 , b, lines 16-21; cf. on the matter of 
payments and debts: Goitein, Mediterranean Society , I, 197-200. 


257 



THE ECONOMY 


was reactivated and coins began to appear with the inscription bi-filastm. 
The first of these were produced in the days of Khumarawayh and his son, 
Harun, from 890 until 904, and these were gold dinars with the unusual 
weight of 3.2 grams. These practices continued during the period when 
the Abbasids reconquered Egypt and Palestine, as we can see from the 
coins with the same inscription from the years AH 296 (AD 908/9), 
AH 298 (AD 910/1), AH 310 (AD 922/3), as well as from a gold coin of 
al-Radl from the year AH 329 (AD 940). The Ikhshldids continued to mint 
coins in Ramla, as previously, but unlike the inferior quality of the 
Palestinian coins produced under the Tulunids, Muhammad ibn Tughj, 
the Ikhshld, ordered the minting of dinars of a finer quality. The Pal¬ 
estinian dinars were formerly known as al-mutallasa, ‘the worn-off’, and 
the Egyptian officials would refuse to use them because they contained so 
much base metal. The Ikhshldl dinar bore the same imprint as the Ahmad! 
(i.e. the TulunI, after Ahmad ibn Tulun), but its quality was improved 
from AH 331 (AD 942/3). It is interesting to note that in the same year, the 
Hamdanids (Nasir al-Dawla and Sayf al-Dawla) still managed during their 
wavering reign to produce silver coins in Palestine. The mint in Ramla 
continued working during Fatimid times as well, as is evidenced by the 
quarter-dinar coins ( ruba‘i ) from the days of al-Mu‘izz, from AH 364 (AD 
974/5) and dinars from the days of al-AzIz, from the years AH 369, 373, 
376, 383, that is AD 979/80, 983/4, 986/7 and 993, and during the rule of 
al-Zahir, in AH 423 (AD 1032), al-Mustansir, in AH 435 (AD 1043), AH 
436 (AD 1044/5), AH 442 (AD 1050/1). The mint in Tiberias was also 
active, as we see from coins dating from the year AH 395 (AD 1004/5), of 
al-Hakim, Abu ‘All ‘Abdallah al-Mansur; and the days of al-Mustansir: 
AH 436 (AD 1044/5). During the latter’s day, the mint in Acre was also 
working and coins from the years AH 462 (AD 1069/70), 463 (1070/1), 
476 (1083/4), 478 (1085/6), 483 (1090), 484 (1091/2), 490 (1097, al- 
Musta‘11) are witness to the fact. After the conquest of most of Palestine by 
the Crusaders, the mint in Ascalon was activated and there, coins called 
after al-Amir were produced. Such coins from the years AH 503 (AD 
1109/10) and AH 507 (AD 1113/4) have been preserved. The mint in Eilat 
was also at work as we see from coins dated AH 514 (AD 1120/1). The 
mint in Tyre was active in al-Mustansir’s times: AH 484 (AD 1091/2) and 
continued to be so in al-Amir’s day as well (that is, after 1101) as can be 
seen from the coin bearing his name. Another active mint was that of Eilat 
in al-Amir’s day, as is evidenced by the coin bi-ayla, from AH 524 (AD 
1120/1). 33 

[368] In the Geniza letters we have already encountered Nizari dinars, 

33 Muqaddasi, AqalTtn, 181f; see the Hebrew Index: wayba, kaylaja, qajiz. Muqaddasi gives 

different (and curious) capacity measures for ‘Amman, Tyre and Damascus. See Hinz, 

1-4; the qirat and the habba are mentioned in the Geniza documents, see the Hebrew 


258 



MEASURES AND COINS [SECS. 367-369] 


and those of Tyre are also mentioned. In a query addressed to the Palestine 
Gaon from Fustat, 100 shaburi dinars are mentioned; these are saburT in the 
Arab sources, which are dinars minted in Naysabur (NIshapur in Persian) 
and their use is mentioned in these sources in the thirties of the eleventh 
century. In the Geniza documents in my collection, especially in Karaite 
documents, the dinars are called darkemomm (which only figures once in 
Rabbanite documents, in a letter ofjosiah Gaon). Zahuv was the name 
commonly used in Hebrew. 34 

[369] A very popular coin was that of the quarter-dinar, the ruba‘1 (pi. 
rubd'Tyat and also ruhd'iyya, which is shortened from danamr ruhd'iyya) . For 
instance, ancient Sicilian quarter-dinars are mentioned in letters of Israel b. 
Nathan to Nehorai. These coins make Nehorai and Avon b. Sedaqa 
uneasy, for Nehorai asked Avon to get rid of them at any price, and in 

Index. Tobiah b. Moses, the Karaite, says: I was not given even a se'ord (a grain ofbarley; 
he means habba): 295, line 26. As to the qlrat, see QirqisanI, 667: in Ramla, in all of Filastln 
and in Egypt and Basra and the other places, the mithqal (= dinar) is 24 qlrats (in the 
discussion on Ex., xxx:13: ‘a shekel is twenty gerahs’)- Trimis is 1 h of the aureus; see 
Jastrow, s.v. trimisyd; see Kyrillos Skythopolitanus, 117, 187; in Festugiere, 111(2), 42 and 
n. 58; cf. PW, VII, 105 (s.v. Triens); related to this is the matter of the turmiis, mentioned in 
the Sefer ha-ma'astm, Bodl Cat. 2680, f. 30a (Lewin, Tarbiz, 1(1,1929/30], 89, 95): ‘asTmon is 
a kind of uninscribed tiirmus’; Lewin assumed that it meant lupinus , the well-known plant 
oftheleguminosae; seej. N. Epstein, ibid., note 2, who derives it from thermos, two qlrats; 
but I think that it is the trimission; see also Sukenik, JPOS, 15(1935), 138, inscription II: 
‘Tanhum ha-Levi bar Halifa dehav had trimlsm’ (donated one trimission in gold); cf. ibid., 
140, and also p. 143, inscription III, line 4; 146, inscription IV, line 2. On the coins of the 
Tulunids, see: Shamma, Abhdth, 24:43, 1971, and see also ibid, the bibliography; see also a 
Tulunid coin from the year 285 (898): Lane-Poole, Cat., II, 67 (No. 228). On Abbasid 
coinage, ibid., 142f. (Nos. 412-415); see also p. 153, No. 456 (al-Radl coin); IX, 76, No. 
413g, 213h, from the years 305, 306, (917/8, 918/9); see on the improvement in minting 
under the Ikhshld: al-'uyun wa’l-hada’iq, IV, 393 (= MS Berlin, fol. 208b); cf. Bacharach, 
Speculum, 50(1975), 605. See a Hamdanid coin in Lane-Poole, ibid., Ill, 5 (No. 6). 
Ikhshldid coins: ibid., II, 68-71 (Nos. 231-235; 237, 239); IX, 174 (Nos. 230t, 232k). 
Fatimid coinage: ibid., IV, 12 (No. 42); 15 (Nos. 54, 60, 65); 30 (No. 119); 34 (No. 133); 
218 (No. 135a); 37 (no. 146); Tiberias: ibid., 35 (No. 135); Acre: ibid., 43 (No. 173); 
Ascalon; ibid., 51 (No. 51). See also Lavoix, Catalogue, 70 (al-Hakim), 129 (Tiberias, 
al-Mustansir), 130 (idem; 7< gold dinar, weighing 0.98 grams), 133 (Acre), 157 (Ascalon, 
al-Amir), 161 f (Ayla, misprinted); Bucknill, Motmaies, 76 (dinar, al-Amir, Tyre); Karaba- 
cek, ZDMG, 21(1867), 622ff (coins of Tyre and Acre); Blau und Stickel, ZDMG, 
11(1857), 451 (on the dirhams from Tiberias in the name of al-Muttaql and his son). See 
ibid., 452, a coin from al-‘Aziz’ day, the year 373, i.e. 983/4, from Ramla. See more 
matters relating to coins in connection with the events in the tenth and eleventh centuries, 
in note 101, chapter 5, and notes 6, 11 and 20, chapter 6; in the latter, proof that the mint 
was still active in Tiberias in 985/6. 

• 54 Tyre dinars: 345, line 7; cf. TS 12,117, a, line 12:. .. dinar suriyya. Shaburi dinars: 337, a, 
lines 6, 11: see Ibn al-jawzl, Mutitazam, VIII, 60, 65: cf. Busse, Chalif und Grossk., 354; 
darkemonim, see the Karaite documents: 303(1), b, line 9; c, lines 2, 10; 304, I, lines 12, 13, 
19; II, line 9; 305, lines 10-27; 307, lines 21-23; in Tobiah b. Moses’ letter: 295, line 25; 
Josiah Gaon: 31, lines 11—13; according to Jonah ibn Janah, S. ha-shorashim, 166 and 
Maimonides in his Mishna Commentary, to Shek., ii:i, the dinars are called darkonim or 
darkonot, see in the Mishna, ibid.; cf. Salmon b. Yeruhim. Commentary on Lamentations, 14, 
and the editor’s note, ibid. Zahuv, see the Hebrew Index. 


259 



THE ECONOMY 


Jerusalem, of all places. Avon b. Sedaqa speaks of Byzantine quarter- 
dinars in a letter written on 31 March 1059, and one may conclude that 
these ruba'iyya which they wished to rid themselves of, were the Sicilian 
dinars dating from the Byzantine period (that is, they were minted before 
the island was completely overtaken by the Muslims in 965, or perhaps 
during the Byzantine occupation from 1038 to 1042). The coins were very 
old and in Egypt they were painted red, turned green, and were finally 
sold in Jerusalem at half their value. 35 


The Maghribis 

[370] In the mid-eleventh century, according to the Geniza documents 
which I have surveyed, the Maghribis were a central factor in the import 
and export trade in Palestine. These Maghribis were the descendants of 
Babylonian Jews who emigrated to the Maghrib mainly during the first 
half of the tenth century, when the internal situation in Baghdad and other 
central areas of the Abbasid caliphate was on the decline while in the 
Maghrib the Fatimid caliphate was founded. The Fatimid rulers were wise 
enough to make use of the talents and know-how of those Jewish mer¬ 
chants, and they evidently encouraged them by their tolerance and also by 
the relatively organised regime and efficient internal order they had suc¬ 
ceeded in establishing within their domain. It was due to these Jewish 
merchants, who had an international trading tradition that went back 
centuries, and the financial wherewithal and the disposition to work 
together, that Ifrfqiya, the region of present-day Tunisia, and especially 
Qayrawan, its capital, became a major commercial centre in the Mediterr¬ 
anean area. Towards the end of the century, with the conquest of Egypt 

35 See the Hebrew Index: rubd‘1 Sicilian dinars: 463 , a, lines 13f; 467 , a, lines 22-24; 469 , a, 
line 11; 473 , b, lines If. from which one can understand that Israel is writing about his 
cousin Nehorai who is worried about the quarter-dinars. The letters of Avon: 498 , a, line 
18: he informs Salama b. Joseph in Sicily that the rami' quarter dinars have arrived; b, lines 
1-2: he asks Nehorai to send them on to him in Jerusalem; 499 , a, line 4 : the dinars were 
brought to Jerusalem by Isaac al-Andalausi; ibid., lines 16f: he sorely complains of the 
difficulty of selling them, and similarly in 500 , a, line 28; 501 , a, lines 31-37: he sold 39 
quarter-dinars weighing altogether eight dinars (some 34 grams, much less than the 
proper weight, some 41 grams) for 20 dirhams per dinar, while a good dinar was priced at 
36V2 dirhams (undoubtedly speaking of waraq dirhams); 502 , line 5, includes the news of 
the completion of the sale of these quarter-dinars; it seems that these coins were minted 
with the sign of a star, and this is perhaps what Avon is hinting at when he writes in anger 
about the problem of selling them: ‘praise to Him who made their star fall down!’ (that is, 
to God, who liquidated the Byzantine rule in Sicily?). Perhaps the darkemonim kokhbaye 
(with stars) which Josiah Gaon mentions in his letter 31 , line 12 were of that type of coins as 
well, minted during the rule of Constantine XI (Monomachus; 1042-1055), called in the 
sources stellati, because they were minted with a star. See: Morrisson, Catalogue, 633. 
Another possible explanation: Under al-Hakim’s rule coins were minted whose in¬ 
scriptions were arranged in a circle ( mudawwara ), or in the form ofa star. See Balog, in Gli 
Arabi in Italia, 615, and see the plates Nos. 25, 51, 58 after p. 621 ibid. 


260 



THE MAGHRIBIS [SECS. 370-384] 


and the gradual Fatimid domination of Palestine and Syria, the centre 
moved eastward to Egypt, and the Jewish merchants followed in the wake 
of this move. 36 

[371] During the period from which most of the Geniza documents 
relating to Palestine derive, the circle of Maghribi merchants gathered 
round the figure of Nehorai b. Nissim. We find him living in Fustat and 
from there, directing the activities of his partners and agents in Palestine. 
One would be inclined to think that his personality was well known 
because it so happened that his well-stocked archives were preserved in the 
Geniza, putting others in the shade. However, he is also frequently men¬ 
tioned in letters not directly concerned with him, and there is no doubt 
that he occupied a central position among the Maghribi merchants, both 
because of his status in trade and because of his activities and social 
standing in the Babylonian congregation in Fustat. The Palestinian base of 
the Maghribis of Nehorai’s circle was in Ramla, and naturally we also find 
them in Jerusalem, either for a lengthy stay (as in the case of Israel b. 
Nathan and Avon b. Sedaqa, or some of the Tahirti family) or as pilgrims, 
or for a short visit. Their shipments by sea generally arrived via Tyre, and 
sometimes Ascalon, and from these ports, goods were shipped abroad. 
Part of their trade consisted of the transfer of goods: mainly silk, perfumes 
and various scents and spices, such as pepper. 37 

[372] The pronunciation Nehorai is extant in the Talmudic texts and 
confirmed by the address of a letter sent to him by Shelah b. Mevasser, 
Hadra (the honourable) Rabbenu Nehorai, etc., but it may be that the usual 
spelling, Nhr’y, goes to prove that it was pronounced ‘Nahray’, and this is 
how it is spelled in the works of my late teacher and guide, Prof. Goitein. 

36 For the roots of the activities of the Jewish merchants, known for their understanding of 
international finance and trade, one should probably look back to a very ancient period, 
during Persian times. Their base was Mahoze, capital of the Persian kingdom and the 
nearby communities in the region of the Tigris, called Gukha in the Talmudic period and 
that of the early Geonim, and Radhan among the Aramaic-speaking Christians and 
afterwards also by the Arabs, who still used the name Jukha as well. It is these Jewish 
merchants, their trading customs and the merchandise they carried, that were described in 
an ancient source (apparently Syriac) from which Ibn Khurdadhbih, the ninth century 
Arabic writer, copied; and they are known in research literature by their by-name, the 
Radhanites. See on this matter, Gil ,JESHO, 117:299, 1974, and also: ha-Tustarhn, 13ff; see 
the discussion on the historical background to the economic development in the Fatimid 
period, in Goitein, Mediterranean Society , I, 29-35. 

37 Letters to Nehorai: 458 - 462 ; 465 - 472 ; 474 - 483 ; 486 ; 487 ; 489 - 492 ; 495 ; 496 ; 498 - 503 ; 
505 - 507 ; 510 ; 512 ; 513 ; 519 ; 555 ; 557 ; 560 ; and another two letters written by him: 508 , 
509 . Altogether 49 letters from his archives. For additional mentions of him, see the 
Hebrew Index. See details on Nehorai in Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 153ff; II, 325; 
idem, Letters, 145f; see M. Michaeli’s Dissertation on Nehorai b. Nissim, Hebrew Univ., 
1968; Udovitch, in: Individualism, etc., 65; a characteristic portrayal of how Nehorai 
conducted his various enterprises can be seen in 508 , his letter from Fustat to his chief 
partner in Palestine, Joseph ha-Kohen b. ‘All al-Fasi, then in Tyre. 



THE ECONOMY 


We know that Nehorai settled in Fustat in 1045 or somewhat earlier. The 
base of his trade, and evidently his living quarters as well, were with 
Abraham b. Isaac al-Tahirtl and the rest of this family, in dar al-sarf (house 
of the money-changers) in Fustat, near jisr al-ma‘arij (bridge of the steps). 
The TahirtI family were relatives of Nehorai’s mother. The status of 
al-kabira (the old lady), who is occasionally mentioned in Nehorai’s letters, 
is rather obscure. Her name was Sitt Muruwwa, and her kunya Umm Abl 
‘Imran. 

Nehorai’s wife (his second) came from the ‘ha-Kohen’ family. Israel b. 
Nathan congratulates him on his marriage in 1052 and points out that there 
is not a better family in all of Fustat. His son, Nissim, was born much later 
and it seems that his first children were all girls. In 1064, Avon b. Sedaqa 
writes hoping he will shortly be blessed by a son - which may partly 
account for Nehorai’s own pilgrimage to Jerusalem and the prolonged 
stay there of his wife and al-kabira. Despite the fact that the purpose of 
praying for the birth of a son is not mentioned in the letters, it seems very 
likely that this is what occurred. 38 

[373] Below we shall see that Nehorai and his circle of relatives and 
associates were involved in matters concerning the Palestinian yeshiva and 
the struggle between it and David b. Daniel, who wanted to be exilarch in 
Egypt. From one of Israel b. Nathan’s letters, it appears that he addressed 
certain queries to the Jerusalem yeshiva. The connection between this 

38 Shelah he-haver, the judge, b. Mevasser: ENA 2805, f. 2, b; see on him: Goitein, 
Mediterranean Society , III, 247, 481, n. 171. He was a judge in Alexandria; see 548, line 14. 
Dar al-sarf: 507, in the address and in other letters, see the Hebrew Index. Goitein, 
Mediterranean Society, III, 37, assumed that the Tahirtis were members of Nehorai’s wife’s 
family (his brothers-in-law); see biographical and family details in Michaeli’s Dissertation, 
I, 13f. Jisral-ma'drij, see the Hebrew Index. Nehorai’s marriages: 467, a, line 7; the letter is 
from January 1052, but it is possible that this marriage was contracted a few years earlier, 
when Israel was still living in Byzantium; Avon: 499, a, line 4. His pilgrimage, see Salama 
b. Nissim b. Isaac’s letter to him: TS 12.793, a, lines 5f. On Nehorai’s wife and al-kabira’s 
stay in Jerusalem, we learn from some of Avon b. Sedaqa’s letters, especially 501. There he 
tells how he managed to get them supplies: wheat, wood, oil, onions, salt, etc., and he also 
gave them three dinars in cash. At first they lived in Jerusalem together with Umm Abi 
Yusuf, the mother of Ya’qub b. Isma'il al-Andalusi and with al-shaykh al-Sharabi, whose 
son married the daugher of al-Balluti. Afterward they intended to rent an apartment with a 
Muslim, but he asked too much for it, and finally they found a small lodging with a Jewish 
woman, in the Jewish quarter, near the synagogue, the bathhouse, and ‘our people’ 
(i ashabna , i.e. Maghribis); see on this below in the discussion on the quarters ofjerusalem. 
Avon b. Sedaqa shows respect for al-kabira, Umm Abi ‘Imran; see al-kabira in the Hebrew 
Index, and especially in 482, b; 500, b, line 9; 503, b, lines lOf; her name was Sitt 
Muruwwa: 498, b, line 5. The fact of Nehorai’s wife and al-kabira’ s stay in Jerusalem is 
confirmed also in Israel b. Nathan’s letters, such as 480, b, see there the note (Umm Sha’ul, 
mentioned ibid., a, line 12, is not Nehorai’s wife, contrary to Michaeli’s opinion. Dissert., 
I, 15); 483, a, line 4; it seems that Nehorai was married to someone else, his cousin, in his 
youth, and he also had a third wife, mentioned some ten years after his death, in a deed of 
sale of a slave girl: TS 18 J 1, f 17, the 5th of Kislev 1420 Sel. (10 November, AD 1108): a 
Nubian slave-girl named Na‘Im is being sold to Sitt al-Muna b. Nathan, the widow 


262 



THE MAGHRIBIS [SECS. 370-384) 


circle of Maghribi merchants and the Jerusalem yeshiva was very strong, 
due to the almost constant presence of some of them in Palestine. They 
were usually called al-Maghariba, the westerners, and in the documents in 
my collection, twice we find the version ‘our people, the travelling west¬ 
ern (merchants)’ - (ashabna al-maghariba al-musafirtn) 39 

[374] From among the Maghribi group which was active in Palestine 
and which stayed there, I shall mention those who appear most important 
in the documents in my collection. First among these are the Tahirt! 
family, who came from Tahirt in North Africa (present-day Algeria) and 
moved from Qayrawan to Fustat. Barhun (Abraham) al-Tahirtl, who 
settled in Fustat, had four sons and a daughter (as far as we know, there 
may have been others). His daughter was Nehorai’s mother. 

When I say that Nehorai b. Nissim lived in the house of the Tahirtis, I 
mean that he lived in his grandfather’s (on his mother’s side) house. 
Abu’l-Khayr Moses b. Abraham al-Tahirtl settled in Jerusalem. As can be 
seen, he was Nehorai’s uncle, that is, his mother’s brother. Moses’ son 
Abraham (Barhun), Nehorai’s cousin on his mother’s side, was active 
commercially and travelled back and forth between Palestine and Egypt. 
Moses b. Abraham Tahirt! was close to the Jerusalem yeshiva and he was 
even granted the honour of being appointed haver in ca. 1045. Even earlier, 
the family was busy collecting money for the yeshiva and transferring it to 
Jerusalem. One member of the family was a woman named Esther, 
mentioned in a letter from Abraham b. ‘Amram in Jerusalem to Nehorai 
b. Nissim and to Barhun (Abraham) b. Salih (Nehorai’s cousin), appar¬ 
ently written in about 1060, in which he writes of the death of Moses b. 
Abraham Tahirt! (and also mentions that he had managed to be pro¬ 
claimed haver). His son (undoubtedly Abraham) was at his bedside when 
he died but the death of Esther seemed to him an even greater tragedy. She 
had lived with the Tahirtis, Moses and his son Abraham, in the house 
which belonged to Moses he-haver, who is perhaps Moses b. Jacob, 
Nehorai’s brother-in-law. Taking into consideration the extreme ex¬ 
pressions of mourning on her death and the extravagant eulogies, it would 
probably not be far from the truth if we say that Esther (an unusual name 
in the Geniza documents at the time) was the Hebrew name for Sitt 
al-Muruwwa, that is, al-kabtra, who evidently remained in Jerusalem until 
she died. Another son of the family is also mentioned, Abu Sa‘Id Joseph, 
whom Nehorai calls by the nickname Abu Sa‘Id in his letters. We find him 
in Tyre handing over money to Israel b. Nathan. Finally, there is direct 

ofNehorai. . . ofblessed memory; printed in Assaf, Zion, 5(1940), 276; see on the wives of 

Nehorai: Goitein, Mediterranean Society, III, 161, 273; 487, n. 140. 

39 Queries addressed to the Jerusalem yeshiva: 460 , a, lines 22f; 480 , a, line 7, ‘The western 

travellers': 398 , a, line 9; 497 , line 39. See the Hebrew Index, Maghrib. 

26 3 



THE ECONOMY 


evidence of the Tahirtls stay in Jerusalem in a letter from Abraham 
(Barhun) b. Moses to Nehorai, written ca. 1045, when the two were fairly 
recent arrivals in their respective towns - Nehorai in Fustat and Abraham, 
his cousin, together with his father, in Jerusalem. Apart from many 
commercial matters, we find mention there of ‘a letter to the Sultan’, 
apparently meaning a letter of recommendation for the family, written by 
one of the Fatimid appointees in Qayrawan. There are also greetings from 
‘my Lord and Master, my father’ and the news that they are preparing to 
travel to Hebron, to pray for the entire family. 40 

[375] Nehorai’s brother-in-law, Moses b. Jacob (who married Neh- 
orai’s sister), lived in Jerusalem and four of his letters to Nehorai from 
Jerusalem have been preserved. In one he mentions his living quarters in 
Jerusalem, where as we have already seen, the Tahirtls also dwelled. He is 
occupied with the purchase of mats for the ‘cave’, the synagogue in 
Jerusalem. In another letter, he expresses his happiness at being injerusa- 
lem and seeing the holy place, for which he is prepared to forego worldly 
pleasures and live austerely. It seems that during the gaonate of Elijah 
ha-Kohen b. Solomon, Moses b. Jacob was given the title haver, which his 
father Jacob had held before him. He speaks of other Maghribis connected 
with the Jerusalem yeshiva in his letters and especially Shemaiah he-haver 
(b. Yeshu‘a) and Abraham he-haver b. ‘Amram, while Shemaiah he-haver 
mentions Moses b. Jacob’s arrival in Jerusalem in his letter to Nehorai. 41 

[376] Israel b. Nathan (Sahlun), whom I have already mentioned more 
than once, was Nehorai’s cousin, for his father Nathan and Nehorai’s 
father Nissim were brothers, sons of Nehorai the elder. Israel also lived in 
Qayrawan at first. A letter sent to Nehorai from there, dealing with 
various commercial matters, is preserved in the Geniza, evidently written 
before he set out on his travels which took him firstly to Fustat and 
afterwards to Byzantium and from there to Palestine. In Fustat, he traded 

40 See on the family of the Tahirtls: Goitein, Mediterranean Society , I, 181; Baron Jubilee 
Volume, 512, and see there on raising funds for the Jerusalem yeshiva. Moses al-Tahirtl 
becomes a haver: 141 , lines 2, 4f; Abraham b. ‘Amram: 513 , a, lines 7-14. The name 
Esther, cf, Goitein, Mediterranean Society , III, 178. Joseph b. Moses, see the Hebrew Index; 
cf. Goitein, Tarbiz, 45(1975/6), 71: in the letters from Nehorai’s archive, whenever 
mention is made of Abu Sa‘Id, this Joseph is meant. Abraham b. Moses al-Tahirtl’s letter: 
458 ; the recommendation: b, line 5, and see also lines lOf. 

41 Moses b. Jacob’s letters: 459 - 462 ; the apartment in Jerusalem: 460 , a, lines 2-17; see also: 
461 , lines 18f; mats: 460 , b. lines 9-11; in line 11, he mentions Nissim al-Mu‘allim, 
undoubtedly his brother, referred to in 513 , a, line 10, the letter of the aforementioned 
Jerusalemite, Abraham b. ‘Amram; the satisfaction of being in Jerusalem: 462 , lines 22-29. 
The letter of Shemaiah he-haver: 519 , line 24, in which he speaks of his father, Jacob, the 
haver in the Great Sanhedrin. The granting of the title haver to Moses, we find in 513 , a, 
lines 9f. Another relative of Nehorai’s, was his uncle Farah (Surur) b. Sahlan, mentioned in 
a number ofletters: Nehorai’s, Israel b. Nathan’s, and Avon b. Sedaqa’s. The latter writes 
about him in 1065 that he arrived in Jerusalem ill and in financial straits; people do not visit 
him, nor do they resepct him. He lives in neighbourhood of Muslim houses, and this is 


264 



THE MAGHRIBIS [SECS. 370-384] 

in precious stones and flax on a large scale, as we can see from the letters he 
wrote to Abraham b. Isaac ha-Talmld (Barhun b, Ishaq, of blessed 
memory) in Qayrawan. In my collection, there are twenty letters and 
fragments of letters he wrote from Palestine, of these eighteen are to 
Nehorai b. Nissim. Apparently he left Egypt in the forties and settled in 
Byzantium with his wife, who apparently was a local woman. His family 
life was unhappy and he divorced his wife. He had a son who died and a 
baby daughter ( tufayla) who remained with his divorcee. From Byzantium 
he came to Palestine after much suffering, including imprisonment in 
Constantinople. On his way tojerusalem, he was forced to sell some of his 
own clothing in Tyre in order to stay alive. 

In his letters, he emerges as a wise and honest man as well as an 
extremely generous one. When he arrived in Jerusalem, though still in 
considerable need and after enduring so much suffering, his main concern 
was to see that a letter of a blind woman living in Jerusalem was sent to 
Alexandria, where she had formerly lived, and to ask that the sum of half a 
dinar be collected in Fustat for a poor Jerusalem girl who needed some 
cotton cloth to protect her from the cold. After Jerusalem, Israel went 
northward, apparently intending to reach Tyre and Damascus, and passed 
through the Galilee. We know that he stopped in Gush Halav for a 
comparatively lengthy stay, during which he was occupied in copying 
books for Nehorai and others. While in Gush Halav, he was visited by 
Joseph b. Nahum al-Baradanl, who was on his way to Tyre from Tiberias. 
It seems that Israel’s life was a sea of troubles, not all of them revealed in his 
letter. Indeed, as the writer himself puts it, ‘not everything can be said in a 
letter’. Al-Baradanl subsequently sent him small sums of money to help 
him out. He lived in straitened circumstances and he enlarges on this in 
some of his letters, especially the earlier ones. He seems to have had a share 
in a family inheritance, evidently from his grandfather, and he writes to 
Nehorai about it, sometimes directly, and more suggestively to others. 
From Gush Halav, Israel went to Damascus. Prior to his departure he asks 
for a recommendation from sayyidna al-rayyis (our Lord the head); either 
Daniel b. Azariah, the Gaon, or perhaps Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon, 
who was then av-bet-dm, to the people of Damascus to deal with him 
kindly. Apparently, as we have already seen above, his main occupation 
during his stay in Palestine, where he evidently remained for the rest of his 
life, was that of copyist. Perhaps this craft affected his eyesight or caused 
an eye disease, for in a number of letters he asks to be sent sea-tar ( qafir) 
from Alexandria, a proven remedy for the eyes, indeed the best of rem¬ 
edies (akbar ‘uqqdr). In Jerusalem, Israel lived in a compound belonging to 

probably why they do not visit him; see: 501, b, lines 8-12; read: Farah, joy in Arabic, and 

its synonym: suriir, whence the bogus Biblical name Perahya: see Goitein, Letters 327 , n. 1. 


265 



THE ECONOMY 


b. al-Buhuri, who is Abu’l-A‘la ‘Amramb. Levi (called Rabbenu ‘Amram 
by Solomon b. Judah), who was Avon b. Sedaqa’s brother-in-law and 
lived in the same house, as did R. Isaac, who was Abu Ya‘qub Isaac b. ‘Eli, 
it seems, whom Israel mentions in his letters. But apparently the proxim¬ 
ity did not work out very satisfactorily as can be seen from Avon b. 
Sedaqa’s letter to Nehorai containing serious complaints against Israel. He 
tells of an incident involving Abu’l-Surri Barhun (Abraham), the brother- 
in-law (or son-in-law) of the late Daniel b. Azariah, acting on the request 
of Abu Sa‘d - Josiah ha-Kohen b. Azariah, who was Abu’l-Surri’s 
brother-in-law. Abu’l-Surri was to have inherited Daniel b. Azariah’s 
books, and Avon b. Sedaqa sent them to him in Damascus. Abu’l-Surri 
complained that he could not find the treatise Bava qamtna among the 
books and claimed that Israel had it. Indeed, the book figured in Daniel’s 
lists as being with Israel but the latter refused to hand it over unless the 
‘elders’ ordered him to do so. Avon asked Nehorai to intervene in the 
matter and continued to praise his own good behaviour towards Israel, 
who was a strange and lonely man, but who did not treat Avon properly; 
he hints at Israel’s misbehaviour, though he does not elaborate on it in the 
letter. Israel, it seems, expresses heretical ideas on the ‘resurrection of the 
dead, the stars, and other such matters’. Daniel b. Azariah used to defend 
him against such accusations and rebuff those who accused him, but the 
situation became much worse after Daniel’s death, adds Avon. From 
Avon’s remarks, it appears that Israel, together with his brothers-in-law, 
the Baradanis, caused the divorce of R. Hayyim he-haver b. Solomon’s 
daughter. Further, he adds something intended to arouse Nehorai’s wrath: 
that Israel slanders Nehorai as well, and claims that all his time is dedicated 
to the affairs of the ‘Rav’ and collecting money for him among the 
Maghariba, the Maghribi merchants. Although we are unable to under¬ 
stand these remarks for lack of data, one can grasp that Avon is busy 
slandering and conniving and it is unlikely that he was taken seriously by 
Nehorai. Israel, for his part, does not display any affection for Avon either 
but limits himself to the laconic remark that Avon is well (he has appar¬ 
ently recuperated from some illness). On the other hand, Avon’s mother- 
in-law treats him well and he asks Nehorai to write and thank him and his 
mother-in-law for their attitude towards him. Information on Israel b. 
Nathan from another angle can be found in a letter from Abraham b. Isaac 
al-AndalusI, who arrived in Jerusalem during a trading journey through 
Palestine, noting that he ‘stays with R. Israel, may God the Almighty 
grant him a livelihood in His mercy’, hinting at his neediness. He men¬ 
tions that Israel has already managed to copy eighty-five quires for Neh¬ 
orai. The last available information on Israel b. Nathan is his signature 


266 



THE MAGHR1B1S fSECS. 370-384) 

on a deed of sale made out in Jerusalem on Wednesday, the 8th of Adar II, 
AM 4826, or 8 March AD 1066. 42 

[377] As to Avon b. Sedaqa himself, we have only the information 

42 It is possible that Israel b. Nathan was also a relative of another central figure from among 
the Maghribis, the ‘Rav’, whom we shall speak of below; in 470 , b. line 8 and margin, he 
asks Nehorai to give his regards to the ‘Rav’ and also to al-karima, a term which means the 
sister (see in the notes to 470 ). Further on, he mentions that he received a letter from her; it 
is thus possible that he was the brother-in-law of the ‘Rav’ (his wife’s brother). The letter 
from Qayrawan: Bodl MS Heb a 2, f. 18, printed by Starr, Zion, 1 (1936), 439ff. Poznanski 
knew this letter and used it as the basis for including Israel b. Nathan among the people of 
Qayrawan, see; Harkavy Jubilee Volume, 209. The letter from Fustat (it may not have been 
sent): TS 12.362; printed by Gil, Michael, 7(1982), 250ff; some corrections should be 
entered in the translation there; on p. 252, a, line 5, should be: apart from a little sack. On 
p. b, lines 3-4, evidently one should use the past tense: that is, AbuT-Fad! came from 
Alexandria and received the money . On p. a, line 8, it is possible that akhlaqak should be 
translated: ‘abused you’ and then the guilt does not lie with the addresssee, Abraham b. 
Isaac ha-Talmid, but with b. al-Abar, and then one has to read in the margin, line 3: min 
lisdnlti, that is, that Abraham should free himself of b. al-Abar’s tongue (in the sense of 
flattery, temptation, in the root khlq, see Dozy s.v.). I am grateful to Profs. Blau and 
Somekh for their comments on the foregoing. There he also mentions the arrival of 
someone (the name is not preserved) in Qayrawan, accompanied by people from the 
Christian countries (ma‘a aqwam ‘ajam), who invested 300 dinars with that man. His letters 
from Palestine; 465 - 484 ; 473 was written to a relative in Egypt and 484 to Isma'il b. Isaac 
al-AndalusT, in Fustat.The family details: 467 a, lines 25f, His troubles: 465 a, lines 3f; 467 
a, line 26, he asks of God that he should never see Byzantium again; in 465 a, line 3, he 
curses Byzantium ( balad al-rum): may the God of Israel make it a desert: a possible 
explanation of his troubles in Constantinople is to be found in Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, IX, 515 
- under the year 435 (which began on the 10th of August 1043), where there are details of 
disturbances in Constantinople during Constantine IX Monomachus’ rule (1042—1055); 
the blame for the disturbances was placed on the aliens and the emperor then issued an 
order that anyone living in the city for less than thirty years would be evicted; and more 
than a hundred-thousand people were ousted from the city. Bar Hebraeus (Budge), I, 203, 
has similar details; cf. Starr, Jews, 195f (No. 140 where there is a misprint, vol. X of Ibn 
al-Athir instead of IX); cf. also: Sharf, Byzantine Jewry, 116f; Starr, ibid., 117, and 
following him Sharf, ibid., 126, date Israel b, Nathan's letters between 1060-1075, which 
is apparently the reason why they did not notice the connection between what is said in Ibn 
al-Athir (and Bar Hebraeus) and Israel’s ordeals. His requests for others: 466 , b, lines 2f. 
Al-Baradani’s letter: 492 ; he was apparently the husband of Israel's sister, see 500 , b, lines 
16-17. Matters of inheritance: 470 , a, lines 9f, Abu’l-Hasan Labrat (b. Moses b. Sughmar, 
the brother ofjudah) is the one who deals with the matter. He is also mentioned in other 
letters of his (see the Hebrew Index, Labrat b. Moses); in 479 , a, in the right-hand margin, 
he mentions that he wrote a letter to Labrat, which is attached to his letter to Nehorai, for 
the latter to send it to the Maghrib; he is particularly interested in Labrat getting him a 
leather-bound Bible, to be sent him via al-Mahdiyya and Alexandria. He mentions that 
letter also in 480 , a, line 6; he also continues to conduct business with Labrat through 
Nehorai. There is a hint of this also in a letter from Labrat himself, who was the dayydn of 
the city of al-Mahdiyya, to Nehorai b. Nissim, written in August 1061. These above- 
mentioned letters of Israel, in which Labraf is mentioned, were written between October 
1059 and December 1061. From Labrat’s letter, it emerges that there were differences 
between Israel b. Nathan and his older brother, Abu Yahya Nehorai, who still lived in the 
Maghrib, about an inheritance. Nevertheless, Labraf managed to get ten dinars from 
Israel, see: INAD55, f. 13, lines 24-27, in Goitein, Tarbiz, 36(1966/7), 64-67, and see ibid., 
70, n. 36. See on Abu ZikrlJudah, Labraf’s brother: Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 158. 
The recommendation to the Damascenes; 474 , margin. Until now, I have encountered no 


267 



THE ECONOMY 


contained in his own letters. There are seven in my collection; with only 
one exception (a letter addressed to Hayyim b. ‘Ammar in Alexandria), all 
are addressed to Nehorai b. Nissim. Avon’s full name was Abu’l-Faraj 
Avon b. Sedaqa al-Maghribi al-QabisI, which indicates that his family 
originated in Qabis, North Africa. From the very first letter, written in 
1055, in which he tells that he is living injerusalem, he describes the period 
as being one of hardship, evidently referring both to the severe drought 
endured in Egypt and the disturbing events in the Maghrib. He is himself 
in dire circumstances; at any rate, he is frequently complaining of others, 
of their attitude towards him and of his own illnesses. In the first letter, he 
tells that he was being unjustly accused of dishonesty towards one of the 
Maghribis, from which we learn indirectly how severely the Maghribis 
dealt with members of their circle who did not behave properly. On the 
other hand, if we are to judge from the letter or its style, it is hard to believe 
that the suspicions against him were indeed unjustified, as he claimed. In 
his letters to Nehorai b. Nissim, he speaks of business matters and he is 
overly concerned with the aforementioned quarter-dinars in particular. It 
seems that Nehorai did not fully trust him and considered him an in¬ 
triguer, and perhaps this accounted for the fact that he did not convey 
Avon’s aforementioned letter to Hayyim b. ‘Ammar in Alexandria, 
attached to a letter addressed to Nehorai, with the very specific request 
that he send it to its destination, and this is apparently the reason why the 
letter eventually ended up in the Geniza in Fustat. 

It is obvious from Avon b. Sedaqa’s letters that he behaves like a man 
whose conscience is troubling him, and he tries to win Nehorai’s admir¬ 
ation and understanding, going into great detail about his efforts on behalf 
of Nehorai’s wife and al-kabira, when they came to Jerusalem. He stresses 
the fact that he is weak and ill and has difficulty supporting himself. It 
emerges from his letters that he dealt in kuhl, silk, fruit, glue, soap and also 
wheat. He claims to be constantly making an effort to be independent and 

literary manuscripts in Israel b. Nathan’s handwriting, except (perhaps) for some frag¬ 
ments of halakha and a number of formularies found in the volume Bodl MS Heb f24 (= 
Cat. 2642). Qajar, see the Hebrew Index. Solomon b. Judah: 75, b, line 3; 76, line 39; see 
Ephraim b. Shemaria’s letter: 326, line 2: “Amram b. Levi known as b. Buhuri’. See 
Avon’s letter: 497, a, line 41, calling him: Abu’l-A'la, our brother-in-law (sihrna- perhaps 
identifiable with Mevasser, Avon's brother-in-law). The matter of the Bava qamma: 500 
a, line 38 and margin; see in the continuation, b, lines 6f. Israel on Avon; 480, b, lines If. 
Abraham b. Isaac al-AndalusI: 505, margin. Deed of sale: 544, line 34. 468a, is a letter from 
Israel b. Nathan to Nehorai b. Nissim, written evidently some months before 469, which 
was written in Tishri, whereas this was written in Tammuz. In this letter, too, the matter 
of the queries about problems of halakha, which Nehorai sent to Daniel b. Azariah, is 
mentioned. Another fragment in the Geniza, TS AS 203.108, of which very little remains, 
is also in Israel’s handwriting, and was part of a letter written injerusalem; it is still possible 
to read the name Khalfon b. Benaya, a merchant known to us from other Geniza 
documents; and also Abu Sir, which is Buslr, which was a centre of the flax trade. 


268 



THE MAGHRIBIS [SECS. 370-384] 

does not want to enter into partnership with anyone; nevertheless he 
became involved in a partnership with Ibn ‘Allush al-Jazzar, who is 
evidently Joseph ha-Kohen b. ‘All Fasi. This partnership ended in a 
tremendous squabble, becausejoseph had used the money to buy goods in 
Hebron and Zoar and intended to go to Egypt without first returning the 
money invested by Avon. The quarrel came before the court of the 
yeshiva, with the av-bet-din presiding. Thus we learn that Avon b. Sedaqa 
was a somewhat quarrelsome individual and inclined to get embroiled in 
arguments with others, and also with himself, it seems. His attitude 
towards Nehorai is a very special one; markedly his efforts to be liked by 
Nehorai and to please him. Similarly, he frequently reiterates his feelings 
of affection for and loyalty to the ‘Rav’, the spiritual leader of the Maghri- 
bis, who lived in Fustat. 43 

[378] The ‘Rav’ is Judah ha-Kohen b. Joseph b. Eleazar.To the Maghri- 
bis, who frequently mentioned him in letters, sending greetings and 
expressions of admiration, he was al-rav; ‘rabbenii who should live for¬ 
ever’; ‘our Lord and Master, the genuine rav’; ‘the genuine rav, dis¬ 
tinguished in wisdom’. Israel b. Nathan calls him ‘rabbenii Judah’. In a 
colophon over a piyyut in the rav ’s handwriting, we find . . . Judah 
ha-Kohen b. Joseph b. Eleazar of a holy family, proclaimed rosh ha-seder by 
the Great Court of our Lord Hezekiah b. David, exilarch of all Israel’. 

The owner of the quire, Tamim ha-Kohen b. Jacob b. Ya‘ish, notes that 
the piyyut is in the handwriting of‘our Lord and Masterjudah ha-Kohen’, 
etc. At first, Mann was of the opinion that the son of Joseph ha-Kohen b. 
Solomon Gaon (who shall be discussed below) was being referred to, that 
is, that he was of the priestly family of the Palestinian geonim, but changed 
his mind when he found the aforementioned colophon. According to a 
fragment of a letter, which only contains the address, one can assume that 
he may have stemmed from Sijilmassa in North Africa, for the letter 
addresses ‘our Lord and Master Joseph ha-Kohen . . . son of his Honour¬ 
able Sanctity, our Lord and Master Joseph ha-Kohen Sijilmassi’. Indeed, 
in later generations, perhaps in the twelfth century, there lived a man 
called ‘Abu Zikrijudah ha-Kohen b. Joseph ha-Kohen, great-grandson of 
Joseph ha-Kohen, av-bet-din, the righteous Kohen’, who wrote a com- 

43 Avon b. Sedaqa’s letters: 497—503, the first of which is to Hayyim b. ‘Ammar, who is 
Hayyim b. ‘Ammar al-Madlm, named for madinat Siqilliyya, the city of Sicily, that is, 
Palermo; see on him: Goitein, Mediterranean Society, 1, 374 (in the Appendix, No. 22) and 
see the description of his letter there, TS 20.122; 455, n. 56; III, 340; idem, Letters, 131, n. 
12. See his name vocalised: Avon, in 454, b, line 3. The suspicions: 497, most of the letter. 
The delay in his letter to Hayyim b. ‘Ammar, see the request in 498, a, margin, right; but 
the letter was evidently not sent to its destination, and therefore reached the Geniza in 
Fustat together with the rest of the letters from Nehorai’s archives. His illness and 
difficulties: 499, lines 14-16. His business: 500, a, lines 25—28; b, lines 26-27; 501, a, lines 
37-38; the trade in wheat and the quarrel: 503. 


269 



THE ECONOMY 


mentary to the Book of Creation, but he had no connection to the 
aforementioned ‘Rav’, The latter was in the habit of encircling his signa¬ 
ture with tiny letters, which when read alternately from above and below, 
became: ‘find in me something good’ or ‘will find in him everything 
good’. I have already mentioned the possibility that the ‘Rav’ was the 
brother-in-law of Israel b. Nathan. From the text of one of the letters of 
Avon b. Sedaqa to Nehorai b. Nissim, it seems likely that he was the 
cousin of the prominent Maghribi merchant, Abu Y usuf Y a‘qub b. Isma'il 
al-Andalusi (the Spaniard), who lived injerusalem for a long time. Avon 
b. Sedaqa, also writing fromjerusalem, notes that Ya’qub’s mother wrote 
two letters (fromjerusalem, in Arabic script) to her nephew and her son in 
Fustat. Avon asks Nehorai to collect them in person from the place to 
which they were sent (zuqdq al-qanddil - ‘the lane of the lanterns’) and 
deliver them personally, because Avon wants him to convey greetings on 
his behalf to ‘our Master, may he live forever’. Apparently the nephew 
who was addressed was none other than the Rav and Avon even mentions 
him first, before the son. After 1050, the Rav was involved in some 
internal quarrel within the Fustat community, having to do with finding a 
successor to Ephraim b. Shemaria, head of the ‘Palestinians’. The Maghri- 
bis evidently wished to grant this status to the Rav but they did not 
succeed, because the latter had some strong opponents. Thus the position 
went to ‘Eli b. ‘Amram. In order to oust the Rav, his opponents did not 
hesitate to slander him and provoke quarrels between him and the other 
Maghribis, such as Abraham b. Isaac ha-Talmld. The Rav was one of the 
supporters and loyal followers of Daniel b. Azariah (as were most of the 
Maghribis, it seems) and he afterwards also stood by Daniel’s son, David 
b. Daniel. Evidently it was to these struggles that Avon b. Sedaqa is 
hinting at in his letter to Nehorai b. Nissim, and at the same time, he 
suggests that Israel b. Nathan has reservations about Nehorai’s enthusi¬ 
astic backing of the Rav. Evidence of the latter’s Maghribi background can 
also be seen in a fragment of a deed in his handwriting, written in 
Mahdiyya. 44 

[379] Ya'qub b. Isma‘11 married in Fustat while his mother was still 

44 His nickname in the Maghribis’ letters, see the Hebrew Index, Judah ha-Kohen b. Joseph; 
his full name and his descent and the title rosh ha-seder: TS 8 K 22, f. 8; cf. in Mann, Jen's, II, 
346; Allony, Kiryat Sefer , 38(1962/3) 548f; rosh ha-seder also: 432, margin; 556, b; see 
further on the importance of the ‘Rav’ to the Maghribis: Goitein, Tarbiz, 45(1975/6), 64; 
see Mann, Jett's, , 101, n. 2, and the Supplement in that volume, p. 346; Goitein, ibid., 66, 
did not notice Mann’s correction nor the colophon, from which we know the name of the 
Rav’s grandfather, Eleazar; 486, which he prints there, contains no proof that the ‘Rav’ 
was a scion of the family of the priestly heads of the yeshiva and the way ‘the daughter of 
the head of the yeshiva’ addresses Nehorai b. Nissim can be explained (see the introduction 
to that letter, in my corpus); and there is also no proof that the writer was the wife of the 
‘Rav’, as Goitein says there, 71. The fragment of the letter: TS 6J 1. f. 5. The author of the 


270 



THE MAGHRIBIS [SECS. 370-3841 


living in Jerusalem. Israel b. Sahlun, writing about this in November 
1061, adds that the mother is sad and mournful; she is also poor and old, 
and he asks that she be sent a quarter-dinar. Ya'qub’s brother, Abu Zikri 
Judah b. Isma'il, also deals in trade and Ya'qub refers to him in his letters, 
for it seems that they work together. In my collection, there are two letters 
from Ya'qub b. Isma'il written in Tyre, one to Abu’l-Walldjonah (Yunus) 
b. David (Da’ud), and the other to Nehorai b. Nissim. Ya'qub is engaged 
in shipping various types of merchandise: textiles, arsenic, sugar, soap, 
myrobalan, rhubarb, and gall-nuts. However, one must distinguish be¬ 
tween him and Jacob b. Samuel al-AndalusT, whose letter from Jerusalem 
to Joseph b. Nahum al-Baradani in Tyre has been preserved. Despite the 
fact that Isma'il is the Arabic name generally given to people called Samuel 
and although they both hailed from Spain (Andalus), their handwriting is 
not similar and they apparently dealt in different merchandise as well. 45 

[380] One of Nehorai’s partners, and possibly also a family member, 
was Jacob b. Joseph b. Isma'il al-Itrabulusi, who lived in Ascalon and 
engaged in imports and exports on a large scale. He dealt in tin, yellow 
myrobalan, brazilwood, gall-nuts, sumach, flax, cotton, cedar resin and 
sugar. Nissim b. Halfon, also one of Nehorai b. Nissim’s partners or 
agents, generally conducted his commercial affairs in Egypt although we 
find him on a business mission in Tyre, whence he wrote to Nehorai. In 
his letter, he gives an account of difficulties in the port regarding a 
shipment of flax which arrived from Egypt. In addition, he gives details of 
the items he bought for Nehorai in Tyre, especially textiles. Solomon 
(Salama) b. Moses b. Isaac Safaqusi, another member of Nehorai’s circle, 
writes at the end of December 1059 fromjerusalem, describing the vicissi¬ 
tudes endured by him during the winter; he is not willing to forego fowl in 

commentary to the Book of Creation: see manuscripts from the Firkovitch collection and 
the Mosseri collection, in Mann, Texts, I, 456f, where he also quotes from 556: ‘Judah 
ha-Kohen, the Rav and rosh ha-seder . . . b. R. Joseph he-hasld, of blessed memory’; 
Mann there confuses the two. In the letters he quotes, it is said of the father, Joseph 
ha-Kohen: s.t. = sajeh tav, may he have a good end; that is, he is still living; it appears 
therefore that Judah was a descendant of the priestly Geonim who lived in Fustat (at a later 
period) and used to mention his illustrious lineage. See the title rosh ha-seder also in TS 10 J 
15, f. 8, which is a fragment of a letter from Shelah b. Mevasser to the ‘Rav’ (Judah 
ha-Kohen, the Great Rav, rosh ha-seder . . . b. Joseph ha-Kohen, of righteous blessed 
memory), in Mann, Jett's, 101, n. 2. The small letters: see TS Box G 1, fs. 5, 6, and see a 
slightly different version in Goitein, Tarhiz, 45(1975/6), 65, n. 5. The letters from 
Jerusalem: 499, a, margin. The quarrel in Fustat, see: 399, b; Avon: 500, cf. Goitein, ibid., 
69. The fragment of the deed from Mahdiyya: ENA 4009, f. 9. On the writings of the 
‘Rav’ see Allony (in this note above), 548-549; see Allony and Scheiber, Kiryat Sefer, 
48:152, 1972/3. In Goitein, ibid., 65, n. 5, some documents in his handwriting are 
mentioned. See also: 530, a letter from the ‘Rav’ to his Jerusalem relative, in which he 
strongly objects to the relative’s son travelling to Christian countries. 

45 Ya'qub and his mother: 479, a, lines 21f; his letters: 494, 495 and see what he writes about 
his brother in the latter, b, lines 2-3. Rdwand is rhubarb: Rheum palmatum L., thought to 


271 



THE ECONOMY 


Jerusalem and intends going down to Ramla to purchase some there. In 
this letter to Nehorai he also discusses matters concerning the flax market. 
He, too, has in mind a visit with Abraham b. Isaac ha-Talmid in Ascalon. 

Abraham b. Isaac ha-Talmid is one of the most important and out¬ 
standing individuals among the Maghribis. Israel b. Nathan mentions him 
frequently and it is obvious that they were partners and perhaps also 
relatives. Israel emigrated from the Maghrib before Abraham and as 
mentioned, a letter has been preserved from Israel in Fustat to Abraham in 
Qayrawan. It seems that Abraham was the younger or perhaps a junior 
partner, for there is a note of reprimand towards Abraham for promising 
(or so it claims) to sell the same clothing to two different people, which 
aroused the anger of Hesed al-Tustari. In another letter, Israel says of 
Abraham that he is ‘cool-brained’ ( baridal-damdgh ), meaning he is none too 
clever, which is certainly intended as disparaging. Further on, we find 
Abraham involved in the serious dispute between Abiathar Gaon and 
David b. Daniel, as one of the latter’s supporters, and also serving him as 
judge and scribe. Joseph b. Manasseh, writing to him from Ascalon, calls 
him Abu Ishaq b. al-Talmld al-Dayyan (indeed, it was his father, Isaac, 
who was the judge; at any rate, Abraham was David’s scribe). In my 
collection there is a letter of Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon, dating 
from ca. 1060, during the period when Daniel b. Azariah was Gaon and 
Elijah av-bet-din of the yeshiva court, to Halfon b. Solomon in Ascalon, 
concerning the affairs of Abraham b. ha-Talmid. Abraham complains that 
he is suspected of having married a woman in Ascalon in addition to his 
first wife. Elijah cautions him against rumours of this kind and says that 
‘Heaven forbid there should arise or be such a thing in Israel, for our elder, 
may God preserve him is a notable among Jews and liked by most of his 
brethren’; however, if there is any truth in the matter, he may expect short 
shrift from the law. We do not know what really happened, since in the 
Geniza we only find the marriage deed of his wife Sitt al-Dar b. Hanania. 
Hanania, Abraham b. ha-TalmTd’s father-in-law, is evidently Abu’l- 
Tayyib Hanania ha-Levi the parnas, who is mentioned by ‘Eli ha-Kohen 
b. Ezekiel in his letters, and he is also apparently the Hunayn (a dimin¬ 
utive) cited in a letter to Daniel b. Azariah in connection with a dispute 
over the leadership in Fustat. Abraham b. ha-Talmid was a merchant and 
financier, who lived in the house of the Tahiritis (and of Nehorai b. 
Nissim) in Fustat, Daral-Sarf(‘ house of the money-changers’) but it seems 
that he spent a good deal of his time in Ascalon, perhaps for family 
reasons, as we have seen. 46 

have strengthening qualities, and a laxative; see: Ducros, 61. The letter of Jacob b. Samuel: 

493. 

46 Jacob b. Joseph, see his letter: 487; he was evidently from Tarabulus al-Sham (not from the 

272 



THE MAGHR1BIS (SECS. 370-384] 


[381] Joseph b. Yeshu'a al-ltrabulusl, another Maghribi merchant, 
whose family evidently settled in Tarabulus al-Sham, writes to Nehorai 
from there. He was apparently especially close to Abraham b. Moses 
al-Tahirtl, who dealt mainly in the import of scents and spices. Abraham 
b. Isaac al-Andalusi was another Maghribi merchant who stayed in Jerusa¬ 
lem for a considerable length of time and we have two of his letters from 
Jerusalem: one to his partner Joseph b, ‘All ha-Kohen Fast and the other to 
Nehorai b. Nissim. His partner Joseph was in Fustat at the time, after 
returning from a journey to the Maghrib. Their joint activities were 
trading in textiles; Abraham deals with communal matters of Qayrawan 
and he asks for a Torah cover for the synagogue there. It also emerges 
from his letters that he has a shop in Fustat and wants Joseph to replace him 
there during his absence. While in Ramla and Jerusalem, Abraham con¬ 
tracted a severe illness and had to stay in bed for over a month. He would 
sometimes travel to Ramla and Ascalon; in Ascalon he was evidently 
supervising the loading of goods aboard the ships. Another merchant of 
this group, Jacob b. Salman al-Hariri, writes to Nehorai from Tarabulus 
al-Sham, mentioning shipments of textiles, dates and wheat to Alex¬ 
andria. He arrived in Palestine from Tarabulus after a storm at sea and I 
have already described the misadventures on board. Joseph b. ‘All Kohen 
Fasi was one of the most active of Nehorai’s partners. We find him in Tyre 
in ca. 1067 and Nehorai writes to him there. His base is Ramla but 
sea-going shipments arrive and are exported through Tyre on board the 
cadi of Tyre’s ships and Joseph goes to Tyre for this purpose in particular. 
Nehorai sends him a detailed list of prices and merchandise in Fustat and 
information on the marketing progress of their goods. There is also an 
echo of political events in the letter: ‘the city (Fustat) has already calmed 
down after what happened’. 47 

[382] In Tyre, we also find Isma'il b. Isaac al-BatalyusI (Batalyus in 
Spain, Badajoz today) al-Andalusi, in ca. 1065, and from there he moved 
to Jerusalem. He was a friend of Israel b. Nathan, who writes to him from 


Libyan), and it was he who evidently signed in 604, the power-of-attorney written there 
on the 13th of May 1079. In one of his letters, written from Ascalon to someone in the 
group of Maghribi merchants, he enquired after Nehorai’s well-being, and asked about 
sums of money owed to him (to the writer); a fragment remaining from this letter: 487, a. 
Nissim b. Halfon: 489. Solomon b. Moses: 490, and see on his other letters preserved in 
the Geniza: Goitein, Letters, 138f; see also: Udovitch, in Individualism, 68, n. 18, Israel’s 
letter to Abraham: TS 12.362; ‘cool-brained’: 479, a, lines 10-12. Joseph b. Manasseh: 593. 
Elijah ha-Kohen’s letter: 421. The marriage deed of Abraham b. ha-Talmid’s wife: TS 
20.7, cf. Mann, Jews, II, 245, Scheiber, Tarbiz, 32(1962/3), 274. Hanania, see the Hebrew 
Index, under Hunayn: 399, lines 31, 33, 35. Cf. more of Abraham b. ha-Talmid: Goitein, 
Mediterranean Society, I, 238f; II, 512. 

47 Joseph b. Yeshu'a: 496. The letters of Abraham al-Andalusi: 504, 505. Jacob b. Salman: 
506, 507. Nehorai to Joseph: 508. 


273 



THE ECONOMY 


Jerusalem while IsmTil is in Fustat on a business trip, apparently, that his 
daughter and her children are well. The rest of Isma'Il’s family evidently 
remained in Spain and he writes to Abu‘l-Faraj Yeshu'a b. Samuel in Fustat 
asking him to try to get news of them. They are living in Majrit (which is 
Madrid) and Yeshu‘a is in the position to get information about them from 
people who happen to come from Tulaytula (Toledo) or Majrit. The latter 
are still in close contact with their old home in Andalus and it seems that 
they also have commercial dealings with the places they had formerly 
lived in, for they were well acquainted with the prevailing conditions and 
also had friends and acquaintances there. In his letters to Nehorai as well, 
Isma‘Il writes of family matters in Spain, and apart from this, also cites 
various details concerning their mutual affairs. Another of Nchorai’s 
partners (or agents) is Abu Ibrahim (also: Abu’l-Fadl) ‘Ayyash b. Sedaqa 
b. Barukh al-Maghribi, who lives mainly in Alexandria, and we find him 
visiting Jerusalem in the mid-sixties. Israel b. Nathan informed Nehorai of 
the safe arrival of‘Ayyash in Jerusalem and Nehorai writes to him there, 
mentioning ships that were captured by the Byzantines and enclosing 
letters that have arrived from the Maghrib for him. The price of wheat in 
Fustat is also referred to, for this was a question which weighed heavily on 
those Maghribis who travelled and whose families lived in Egypt, because 
of the severe drought suffered by the country during those years. ‘Ayyash 
b. Sedaqa was evidently of the family of Sedaqa b. ‘Ayyash, one of the 
prominent merchants in Qayrawan at the beginning of the century. 48 

[383] Abu ‘Imran Moses (Musa) b. Abl’l-Hayy Khalila, who lived in 
Alexandria, was also a partner of Nehorai b. Nissim and is mentioned 
occasionally in the letters in my collection. Fie, too, was one of the 
important Maghribi merchants living in Egypt. Apart from his wide¬ 
spread commercial activities, he had a special relationship to the Pal¬ 
estinian yeshiva and bore the title segullat-ha-yeshiva (worthy of the 
yeshiva). In 1094, he thought it proper to congratulate Abiathar ha-Kohen 
Gaon on his victory over his rival, David b. Daniel. This is but one 
instance, of a belated nature, of the involvement of the Maghribis in the 
concerns of the Palestinian yeshiva. Apparently, the Maghribis were first 
considered ‘Babylonians’, stemming from their ancient origins in Persian 
or Iraqi regions, and were considered part of the Babylonian congregation 
in Fustat. But it seems that there were also some Maghribis who joined the 

18 Israel to IsmaYl: 484 . IsmaTl’s letters: 51 ( 1 - 512 ; cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 69. The 
letter to 'Ayyash: 509 ; see on Sedaqa b. ‘Ayyash and on his father ‘Ayyash (the grandfather 
of our‘Ayyash): Goitein, Letters, 307. In 471 , a, lines 9-10, and b, line 2, we find that Israel 
b. Nathan is very worried about ‘Ayyash, because he received a letter from Abraham b. 
Isaac ha-Talmid in which there is information concerning the terrible trouble that has 
befallen ‘Ayyash; Israel urges Nehorai to deal with this matter and to inform him of what 
is happening; we do not know what sort of trouble this was. 


274 



THE MAGHRIBIS [SECS. 370-384] 


‘Palestinians’ in Fustat. As the Palestinian yeshiva was the accepted lead¬ 
ership of all the Jews under Fatimid rule, including the ‘Babylonians’ and 
even the Karaites, the Maghribis were intensely interested in whatever 
related to this yeshiva. One should also remember that Solomon b. Judah, 
head of the Palestinian yeshiva during the second quarter of the eleventh 
century, was a Maghribi, his family stemming from Fas (Fez). In the 
mid-century and later on, we also find some Maghribi scholars living in 
Jerusalem who are connected socially and economically with the groups of 
Maghribi merchants. I have already mentioned Moses he-haver b. Jacob 
he-haver, Nehorai’s brother-in-law (his sister’s husband), and his brother 
Nissim b. Jacob. Abu’l-Faraj Shemaiah he-haver b. Yeshu'a (Faraj) also 
has links with the Maghribis. We find him in Jerusalem, apparently a 
descendant of Shemaiah Gaon, head of the Palestinian yeshiva at the outset 
of the eleventh century, as one can surmise from the signature of the man 
who had been a judge in Fustat at the beginning of the twelfth century - 
Abraham he-haver b. Shemaiah he-haver, great-grandson of Shemaiah 
Gaon. Hence it appears that our Shemaiah b. Y eshu'a was the father of this 
Abraham. Abraham was born in ca. 1050, if indeed he is the infant of 
whose birth Joseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon writes to Ephraim b. 
Shemaria when he mentions that R. Shemaiah had a son (later on, another 
son was born). Below we find Shemaiah in the company of Moses 
he-haver b. Jacob he-haver, the aforementioned brother-in-law of Neh- 
orai. Moses mentions Shemaiah in his letters; we find him managing flax 
transactions in which the flax is spun in Jerusalem and sent to Tyre for 
finishing, where his partner, Manasseh b. Joshua he-haver, deals with it. 
One of the notables of the Ascalon community writes to him, asking him 
to take action — even to the point of declaring a ban - against anyone who 
slanders the writer and against a certain Mevorakh, Shemaiah’s cousin. 
Also mentioned is Shemaiah’s brother Solomon b. Yeshu'a, who is also 
living in Jerusalem. A letter of Shemaiah he-haver to Nehorai b. Nissim 
has been preserved, written in Hebrew, which was not customary among 
the Maghribis, most of whose correspondence is conducted in Arabic. In 
addition to good wishes and grandiose expressions, he mentions Neh¬ 
orai’s Jerusalemite brother-in-law, the aforementioned Moses b. Jacob, 
and Abraham he-haver b. ‘Amram. The ‘alama at the end of the letter is 
interesting: yesha‘ rav yeqarev, a sort of combination of Solomon b. Judah’s 
formula and that of his rival, Nathan b. Abraham. In this letter, there is 
also further confirmation of the connection between the trio of Jerusalem 
scholars (Moses b. Jacob, Shemaiah b. Yeshu'a, and Abraham b. ‘Amram) 
and Nehorai b. Nissim and his circle of Maghribis. The third member of 
the triad, Abraham he-haver b. ‘Amram, turns up in a number of letters in 
which Shemaiah he-haver is also mentioned. Abraham b. David b. Sugh- 


275 



THE ECONOMY 


mar, who played an important role in the split over the gaonate in 
1038-1042, sends him greetings in a letter written at the outset of the 
dispute. According to a list drafted by Ephraim b. Shemaria, he trans¬ 
ferred money from Fustat to the people of Jerusalem through Abraham b. 
‘Amram - nineteen dinars, in a diyoqne. We also have a letter from 
Abraham b. ‘Amram himself, written in Jerusalem and addressed to a 
Spanish merchant staying in Ramla. From this letter it emerges that 
Abraham had a special link with people from Qal‘at Bani Hammad in 
North Africa and he asks his correspondent to pass on his letter to them. 49 

[384] From the letters of the Jerusalem Maghribis, it is obvious that 
those who were lucky enough to see Palestine and live there felt they had 
achieved a treasured aim, and they do not refrain from expressing their 
enthusiasm and happiness. On the other hand, their hearts remained in the 
west and they are constantly asking after and interesting themselves in 
news from there, for they have left behind relatives and friends. These 
Maghribis, who undoubtedly contributed largely to the prosperity and 
the renewed flourishing economy in Palestine from 1030 onwards, were 
later the victims of the political and military events by which the Maghrib 
was destroyed, and which also affected Sicily, while Palestine was caught 
up in the whirlpool as well. In one of his letters, Avon b. Sedaqa mentions 
bad news from Sicily - the burning of ships and the Maghribis reduced to 
ruin. Thejerusalem parnas ‘All ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel complains in ca. 1060 
that the situation in Jerusalem is very bad and that the merchants have 
stopped coming there. As to Qayrawan in the thirties of the eleventh 
century, we already find signs of its economic decline, which was un¬ 
doubtedly the result of the transfer of the Fatimids’ centre to Egypt. As 
early as July 1035, in a letter sent from there to Ephraim b. Shemaria in 
Fustat, mention is made of merchandise sent by Ephraim to the Maghrib 
with a certain Abu Sa‘Id (undoubtedly a shipment of scents and spices - 
Ephraim’s trade), which was not sold for lack of customers (‘all goods are 

49 See on Musa b. Abl’l-Hayy: Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 445 (No. 27); Mann, Jews, 
II, 220, quotes from BM Or 5545, f. 7 (a court document from the court of David b. 
Daniel), line 8: al-shaykh Abu ‘Imran, our Lord and Master Moses segullat ha-yeshiva (the 
worthy of the yeshiva), b. our Master Abu’l-Hayy, of blessed memory’ (1089). See also 
Udovitch, in Individualism, 66, and there in n. 11, a list of his letters written to Nehorai b. 
Nissim from Alexandria. The letter to Abiathar: 551. On Abraham b. Shemaiah see 
Mann, Jews, II, 231ff, 342; Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 512 (No. 13); Schapira, 
Yerushalayim, 1952/3, 118. Joseph ha-Kohen: 409, line 19. Moses b. Jacob’s letters: 
460-462. Two sons: 521, a, line 3. Manasseh b. Joshua’s letters: 521-523. From Ascalon: 
526. Solomon b. Yeshu'a: see the Hebrew Index. Shemaiah’s letter: 519. Abraham b. 
David b. Sughmar: 190, b, line 4. The list of Ephraim b. Shemaria: 326, line 11. Abraham’s 
letter: 524. There is also a letter in his handwriting preserved in the Geniza, on the order of 
reading the Torah, TS 12.726, printed by Assaf, Responsa (1942), 109ff. His signature is 
surrounded by small letters which I am unable to explain. Assaf read Jacob (instead of 
Abraham) b. ‘Amram by mistake. 


276 



THE MAGHRIBIS [SECS. 370-384] 


cheap and unfortunately he that earneth wages earneth wages to put it into 
a bag with holes’, quoting Hag., i:6). Nehorai’s brother-in-law Moses b. 
Jacob, writing from Jerusalem in March 1053, expresses his despair at the 
absence of news from his family in the Maghrib; everyone knows of the 
economic hardship and the calamities occurring there. Israel b. Nathan 
also mentions the heavy hearts and notes ‘how much harm has been done 
to people’s property and their persons’. Abraham he-haver b. ‘Amram 
speaks of profound alarm among the Maghribis in Jerusalem and tells of a 
letter that arrived from Abraham b. David b. Sughmar, from which one 
can understand that there is ‘a change in the world and a turning over of the 
heavens’ and that they are awaiting more specific news. They are speak¬ 
ing, of course, of the raids of the Banu Hilal and Banu Sulaym, which 
eventually led to the destruction of the region. The pressure of these tribes 
increased, especially since Dhu’l-Hijja AH 443 (19 April 1052), and after a 
short time the regime’s institutions were hastily transferred from Qayra¬ 
wan to Mahdiyya. Qayrawan was completely destroyed in November 
1057 after a siege which the Bedouin began in 1054. 50 


The economy of Jerusalem 

[385] Against the background of this general survey of economic life in 
Palestine, Jerusalem’s special situation is conspicuous. Actually it should 
have been a prosperous and flourishing city, being the focus of pilgrims of 
every religious,persuasion, but as a matter of fact, we hear mainly of 
distress and want. This was an unusual situation, naturally, which was the 
product of the special conditions reigning in the eleventh century, the 
period of the Geniza letters. We do, indeed, find echoes of the connection 
between the economic activities and the arrival of masses of people in 
Jerusalem. Nehorai b. Nissim intends to send merchandise for sale on the 
Muslim feast although the likelihood of getting decent prices for them is 
remote. From Avon b. Sedaqa’s letters, we have already learned that 
towards the pilgrimage season, one should stock up on grapes and that 

50 Among those who emigrated from the Maghrib to Palestine, one must include Zadok b. 
Yahya, at whose request and for whom Rabbenu Nissim b. Jacob wrote his commentary 
to the first mishna in the tractate Rosh ha-shana. See: MS Mosseri R 12, in Assaf Mi-sjrut 
ha-ge’onim, 122, cf. Abramson. Nissim Gaon, 94 (these sources are from about the mid¬ 
eleventh century; this Zadok is not mentioned in the letters in my corpus). Avon: 500, a, 
lines 20f. ‘Eli ha-Kohen: 443, a, lines 6f. The letter to Ephraim: 330, lines 23-24. Moses b. 
Jacob: 459, lines Ilf. Israel: 473, a, lines 9-10. Abraham he-haver: 513, b, lines 9f. The 
destruction of Qayrawan: Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, IX, 569; Idris, La Berberie, 210-229; seeBM 
Or 5542, f. 9, the letter ofIsma‘il b. Farah to Nehorai b. Nissim with a description of some 
of the horrors experienced by the Jews of Qayrawan, see its translation in Goitein, Letters, 
154-158. 


277 



THE ECONOMY 


their sale is profitable, Israel b. Nathan notes, as aforementioned, that only 
if merchants from the Christian countries (‘ ajam) come to Jerusalem will it 
be possible to sell pearls, for the town itself is poor ( li-annahu balad da'if). 
Another fact emerges from the letters in the Geniza and that is that most of 
the trading goes on in Ramla and not in Jerusalem; that is, the pilgrims 
come to Jerusalem, and when their spiritual needs are fulfilled, the pil¬ 
grims, and chiefly the tradesmen among them, turn to Ramla to transact 
business. This was the case, for instance with Khallufb, Aaron and Khalaf 
b. Abraham b. Khalil al-Itrabulusi, who invested 350 dinars in a part¬ 
nership to buy merchandise, which they purchased in Ramla in order to 
sell in Damascus. From Ramla, an important and successful commercial 
centre, Jerusalem received its principal direct support, as the Gaon Solo¬ 
mon ha-Kohen b. Joseph puts it (in the spring of 1025): ‘and most of our 
livelihood was from the clerks [merchants’ agents] of Ramla and its 
merchants; we would buy on credit and sell and cover our debts, and still 
profit’. There were shops in Ramla which were foundations ( heqdesh ) for 
the welfare of Jerusalem and their income would pay most of the tax 
imposed on its Jews. But assistance came tojerusalem from all thejewish 
communities, and not only from Ramla. Nevertheless it is obvious that 
life in Jerusalem was hard and there was the danger of being reduced to 
poverty, as stated in the letter of thejerusalem yeshiva (evidently in 1057): 
‘. . . life in big cities is hard, even more so in Jerusalem, where a curse 
prevails, its nourishments come from afar and livelihood is scarce; many 
who came to the city were impoverished and demeaned’. In the same 
fifties, the Maghribi Abraham b. Isaac al-Andalusi, writes from Jerusalem 
to Fustat to his partner Joseph b. ‘All Kohen Fas!. ‘The land has died, its 
inhabitants are poor and die, and especially injerusalem; there are no cattle 
to be slaughtered, neither on a week-day nor on the sabbath, and there is 
no fowl to be had’. This was written in reply to Joseph’s question as to 
whether he intended to remain injerusalem. One can imagine that this 
scarcity was to a large extent due to the unstable state of security as 
described in this letter and others. The situation became even worse 
during those years in which Egypt suffered from drought, and the effect 
on Jerusalem was two-fold: on the one hand there was the interruption of 
pilgrimages, and on the other hand, the absconding of the grains from 
Palestine to Egypt and the soaring prices in general. The situation is 
described by Israel b. Nathan in 1061 in this manner: injerusalem there is 
starvation. A qajtz of wheat costs three dinars, reaching three and a half, 
when it has sand and should be sifted; may God save us and the poor’. 51 
51 Nehorai: 508, b, line 3; cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 195. Grapes: 503, a, lines 5f. 

Israel: 477, line 4. The partnership: 30. Solomon ha-Kohen: 50, lines 14-15. The shops of 

Ramla: 49, a, lines 16-17. The letter of the yeshiva (1057): 420, c, lines 28-30. Abraham b. 

Isaac: 504, a, lines 21-22. Israel b. Nathan: 480, b, lines 5-6. 

278 



5 


Palestine from the 

BEGINNING OF ABBASID RULE TO 
THE FATIMIDS 

W 


From the revolution to al-Ma’mun 

[386] The Abbasid revolution brought about drastic changes in Palestine’s 
status and its internal events. The ruling centre was considerably removed 
geographically. The most drastic and basic change effected by this revol¬ 
ution throughout the caliphate - the decline of the Arab tribes’ glory - was 
strongly felt in Palestine. From that time onwards, after the initial shocks 
were over, one hears no longer of the tribes participating in its political 
affairs, but only of their rebellions, and in the literary sources of the period 
there is hardly an allusion to those numerous tribes. The chief rulers, the 
caliphs, were no longer at home in Palestine, and when one of them paid a 
visit to Jerusalem, the fact was recorded in the chronicles as an event, and 
the visit itself bore a special religious-political significance. Baghdad, the 
new capital of the caliphate established in 762, was also a source of 
resentment on the part of the former centre of al-Sham, the seat of the 
Umayyads, whom the new rulers tried to depict as genuine heretics. In a 
poem in praise of Baghdad written shortly after its foundation, we find the 
lines (in a free translation): ‘A visitor coming to Baghdad can close his eyes 
quietly and sleep to his heart’s content, whereas in al-Sham he would not 
dare to do so, for Baghdad was almost destroyed by the favours and 
bounty it regaled them [the people of al-Sham] with; but they respond 
with enmity and slander, unjustly and undeservedly.’ The first officials in 
ruling positions and local administration were members of the caliph’s 
family, who bore feelings of profound malice towards anyone who had 
collaborated with the Umayyads. In the course of time, a system of 
political centralisation developed in Baghdad, which worked through 
the medium of offices ( diwans ), similar to present-day ministries and 


279 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


evidently modelled along the lines of Sasanid Persia. The central pillar of 
this system comprised the kuttab (sing.: kdtib), or the clerks, who were 
familiar with the techniques of recording and administration and were 
generally of either Persian (Zoroastrian) or Christian origin, and even 
some Christians who had not converted to Islam. These were a sort of 
secular arm of the reign, guided not by Muslim law but by the will and 
policies of the ruler. They were headed by the wazir, an office created by 
the Abbasid regime. At first, his role was to direct the central diwdn, but he 
quickly became the actual ruler, the deputy of the caliph. The army, too, 
saw changes; units from Khurasan, Persians and afterwards also Turks, 
replaced the Arab tribes. 1 


1. Uprisings in Palestine 

[387] During the first years after the revolution, rebellions erupted 
throughout the caliphate which were crushed by considerable bloodshed 
and violence. Theophanes tells of a great many murderous acts carried out 
by the local inhabitants (certainly meaning Bedouin tribes) among the 
‘wearers of the black’ ( maurophoroi ; black was the colour of the Abbasids) 
in Palestine in 754. Salih b. ‘All, uncle of the caliph al-Mansur (his father’s 
brother), was forced to send an army from Egypt (to which he had been 
appointed governor by the new rulers) to Palestine in order to fight the 
rebels, the khawarij, and he personally went to Palestine afterwards to 
command the army, alongside Abu ‘Awn ‘Abd al-Malik b. Yazid. The 
insurgents suffered a crushing defeat and many of them were killed; the 
severed heads of 3,000 of their men were sent from Palestine to Fustat. 
Apparently after this collapse, the situation in Palestine was subdued. In 
764, Arab tribes still took part in a raid into Byzantine territory, headed by 
Malik b. ‘Abdallah al-Khath'ami, known as malik al-sawd’if (meaning 
approximately: the summer-raider, from sd’ifa), and taking considerable 
spoils in the process. 2 

[388] The first governors were members of the caliph’s family, as I have 

1 See the verses (there is a difference of opinion as to the author’s identity) in al-Kharib 
al-Baghdadl, Ta’rikh, I, 68. 

2 Theophanes, I, 429 (cf. Breyer, 72). The khawarij (sing, khdrijt) were the sworn enemies of 
the Umayyads, and now of the Abbasids; sometimes this term is used for any rebels and 
one does not know exactly to whom it refers; see Ibn Taghri BardI, I, 331f; cf. Wiistenfeld, 
Statthalter, II, 4. According to Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, 84, Abu ‘Awn was then governor of 
Egypt while Salih b. ‘All was governor of Trans-Jordan (al-Balqa’) andjund Filastln. The 
uprising in Palestine during al-Man^ur’s time is mentioned in Tabari, ibid., also on p. 436; 
according to him the leader of the rebels was caught and sent to al-Mansur, but he was 
forgiven, thanks to one of the caliph’s advisers, al-RabT; cf. Ibn Khallikan, II, 295. The 
raid: Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, V, 576. 


280 



FROM THE REVOLUTION TO AL-MA'MUN [SECS. 386-410] 

mentioned; Salih b. ‘All was appointed commander in jund Filastln in 
Sha‘ban AH 133 (4 March AD 751). Two and a half years later the area of 
his command was extended to southern Trans-Jordan (al-Balqa’), Egypt 
and the west (on 8 October 753). ‘Abdallah ibn ‘AH, another of the caliph’s 
uncles, was appointed to Urdunn at the same time. During al-Mansur’s 
day the governors were ‘Abd al-Wahhab b. Ibrahim, the caliph’s nephew, 
in jund Filastln, and Muhammad b. Ibrahim, ‘Abd al-Wahhab’s brother, 
in jund Urdunn. ‘Abd al-Wahhab was also in charge of the summer raids 
against the Byzantines, but he was not very successful in this role and was 
therefore transferred to other districts. In order to demonstrate how his 
nephew behaved in jund Filastln, the caliph was shown a plucked chicken; 
this is apparently what brought about his ousting from there. During 
al-Mahdl’s time (775-785) the governor of jund Filastln was Nasr b. 
Muhammad b. al-Ash‘ath; he is credited with catching two of the few' 
Umayyads who were still alive in the area, Bakr b. Mu‘aw r iya al-Bahill and 
‘Abdallah b. Marwan b. Muhammad. At about the same time, Bishr b. 
Rawh al-Muhallabl is mentioned; he was commander (amir) of the city of 
Ascalon. At that time, there was an important Muslim scholar living 
there, Abu ‘UmarHafs b. Maysara, who collected hadlths and hailed from 
§an‘a in Yemen. 3 


2. Thawr b. Yaztd and his contemporaries 

[389] At that time, Abu Khalid Thawr b. Yazld b. Ziyad al-Kula‘I 
al-Rahbl al-Him$I, evidently one of the pupils of Raja’ b. Hayawa, was 
living in Jerusalem. His grandfather Ziyad had fought alongside Mu‘a- 
wiya at Siffm against ‘All, and it seems that the grandson hated the Shiites 
as a result. Thawr was in conflict with Malik b. Anas, the famous scholar 
of Medina, and it seems that he remained inwardly loyal to the Umayyads 
and was therefore accused of being a Qadarl (one who believed in the 
freedom of will), an accusation made against a number of the Damascene 
caliphs as well. A contemporary who also lived in Jerusalem was 

3 Tabari, Ta’rtkh, III, 75, 81, 84; Ya‘qubl, Ta’rtkh , II, 461; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, V, 454; Ibn 
Taghri BardI, I, 328; II, 30; Wiistenfeld, Statthalter, II, 2f; al-Khatib al-Baghdadl, Ta’rtkh, 
XI, 17f, adds that ‘Abd al-Wahhab died in AH 158, i.e. AD 775; Ibn ‘Asakir, VI, 376fhas a 
biography of $alih b. ‘All, especially his wars against Constantine V Copronymus (741- 
775, the son of Leo: in Ibn‘Asakir, thesonofal-Nun). The story of the chicken: Jahshiyari, 
137; in 764, we find ‘Abd al-Wahhab at the head of the hajj, the pilgrimage to Mecca, see: 
Ibn H^blb, Midiabbar, 35. Nasr b. Muhammad: Tabari, Ta’rtkh, III, 46; Abu’l-Fida’, 
Mukhtasar, I, 212. Bishr b. Rawh: Ibn ‘Asakir, IV, 386. Hafs b. Maysara (died in AH 
181/AD 797): al-Khatlb al-Baghdadl, MCidih, II, 48f; KhazrajI, 75 (who says that he 
belonged to the Banu ‘Uqayl); Ibn al-Tmad, I, 295; DhahabI, Thar, I, 279; Ibn ‘Asakir, IV, 
385f; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, II, 419. 


28l 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


‘Abdallah b. Shawdhib (who came from Balkh in Khurasan, and only 
came tojerusalem after a stay in Basra). Abu Ishaq Ibrahim b. Adham was 
also born in Balkh, to a family whose origin was in Kufa, of the Banu Bakr 
b. Wa’il. He was involved in government matters at first but afterwards 
left them and went tojerusalem where he settled and there lived the life of 
an ascetic. He fell in battle against the Byzantines in AH 161 (AD 778). 
Ibrahim b. Adham is considered one of the founders of Sufism; he was 
suspected of heresy and arrested, but the people of Jerusalem hastened to 
the deputy governor of Tiberias (he seems to have had some authority in 
Jerusalem), and he released him. A collection of hadiths thought to have 
been taught by Ibrahim b. Adham was assembled by Ibn Manda (who died 
in 1005). Other contemporaries who lived in Palestine, these in Ramla, 
were Khalid b. Yazid and Sawwar b. ‘Ammara, the pupils of ‘Abd 
al-Rahman al-Sindi. Abu Miqdam Raja’ b. Mihran (who is Abu Salama) 
al-Filastini, Raja’ b. Hayawa’s pupil, came to Palestine from Basra and 
lived in Ramla. 4 

[390] A central figure of the Abbasid government during the time of 
al-Mansur was a man who originally came from Palestine, Abu’l-Fadl 
al-Rabi‘ b. Yunus. He was a mawla of a mawla, of al-Harith al-Haffar, 
mawla of the Caliph ‘Uthman b. ‘Affan. Al-Rabi‘ served as hajib, head of 
the caliph’s court, and was later his wazlr and confidant, and also served 
his heir, al-Mahdi, in the same fashion. When al-Mansur favoured some¬ 
one who approached him, he would send him to al-Rabi‘. His family came 
from the Galilee, where his grandfather was taken captive during the 
conquest of Palestine; evidently he was from a Christian family. The 
governor of jund Filastin during al-Mansur’s day was Abu Muhammad 
‘Abd al-Samad b. ‘All b. ‘Abdallah b. ‘Abbas, the caliph’s uncle. 5 

3. A Jewish uprising (?) 

[391-392] A short time after Harun al-Rashid ascended the caliph’s 
throne, the insurrection of Yahya b. Irmiya (Jeremiah) the Jew broke out 

4 Thawrb. Yazid (died AH 153/AD 770): Ibn Sa‘d, VII(2), 170; Ibn Qutayba, Ma'arif 505; 
al-Bustl, 181 (No. 1438); Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil , V, 611; Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 310; according to 
whom he was thrown out of Hims because of his opinions and he then moved tojerusalem; 
Ibn Hajar, TahdhTb, II, 33; ‘Ulayml, 255. Cf. the list of sources on him: Van Ess, SI, 
31(1970), 273. ‘Abdallah b. Shawdhib (died in AH 156/AD 773): DhahabI, ‘Ibar, I, 225; Ibn 
Hajar, TahdhTb, V, 255f. Ibrahim b. Adham: Sam'anT, II, 304f; Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, X, 
135-145; ‘Ulayml, 259, adds that his grave can be seen in Tripoli (ofSyria; at the end of the 
fifteenth century); SulamI, Tabaqdt, 13-22; cf. Goitein, BJPES, 12 (1945/6), 124; the article 
Ibrahim b. Adham (by Russell Jones) in EP. The collection of hadiths: Sezgin, I, 215 (No. 
12). Khalid b. Yazid and Sawwar b. ‘Amara: DhahabI, Ta'rTkh, VI, 94; Raja b. Mihran 
(died in AH 161/AD 778): Ibn ‘Asakir, V, 315; Ibn Hajar, TahdhTb, III, 267. 

5 Al-RabT b. Yunus, see: Ibn Khallikan, II, 294—299; he was called son of the ewe (Ibn Shah) 
for his mother died when he was a baby and he was raised on lamb’s milk; see also: Tabari, 


282 



FROM THE REVOLUTION TO AL-MA’MUN [SECS. 386-410] 

in Palestine, as I have already mentioned. According to Ibn ‘Asakir (who 
describes him as a highwayman), Yahya b. Irmiya was ajew from Trans¬ 
jordan who had two collaborators from among the followers of the 
Umayyads. From this fact alone one can surmise that they were certainly 
not highway robbers but that it was an uprising. The two confederates 
surrendered to the governor of Damascus at the time, Harun al Rashid’s 
brother Ibrahim, son of the Caliph al-Mahdl, and were pardoned, while 
thejew remained intractable. He would not agree to convert to Islam, to 
pay the jizya or to surrender, even if the governor were to pay him 2,000 
dinars annually. Finally, the forces sent by Ibrahim under the command of 
al-Nu‘man, a tnawla of the Umayyads who had formerly been one of 
Yahya’s supporters in the uprising, overcame the rebels and Yahya fell in 
battle. The source describes his proud bearing, for example that he refused 
to mount a horse which had been watered while negotiating with the 
governor, saying that he would not take anything from the Muslims, not 
even water for his horse. 6 

Information about this uprising, which can be found only in Ibn ‘Asakir 
in a somewhat detailed account, seems to have reverberated in a Christian 
source describing the considerable destruction in Palestine as a result of the 
civil war in 788, in the days of the patriarch Elias (II), telling of the utter 
devastation of Bet Guvrin (Eleutheropolis), Ascalon, Gaza and Sariphaea. 
The St Chariton monastery was robbed and the Mar Saba monastery was 
attacked. 7 


4. The war of the tribes 

[393] In 792-793, an unmitigated war was waged in Palestine by the 
Arab tribes; this was the war of the North (Mudar or Nizar or Qays) 
against the South (Yaman). We know that at the head of the ‘northerners’ 

Ta’rtkh, III, 457; cf. Khalidi, 101 (who has: jabal al-khaiil instead of jabal al-jalil ). ‘Abd 
al-Samad b. ‘All: Ibn Qutayba, Ma'drif, 374. 

6 Ibn ‘Asakir, II, 267f; Ibn Kathir, Bidaya, X, 165, mentions only that in 174 (790) there was 
insurrection and troubles in al-Sham, 

7 See the treatise of Stephen, a monk from Mar-Saba, in: AA SS, March, III, 167f. Archae¬ 
ological evidence of the destruction ofBet Guvrin, see: Constantelos, Byzantion, 42(1972), 
343f. Sariphea: perhaps Sarafa in southern Trans-Jordan, cf. Le Strange, Palestine, 531; but 
it seems more likely that it is Sarafand, Serifin in Talmudic sources. See: Guerin, Descrip¬ 
tion, I, 33f. It seems that in the wake of the rebellion the Abbasid rulers applied themselves 
to building projects in Palestine, as can be seen from the inscription in the pool in Ramla, 
which is dated Dhu’l-Hijja AH 172, May AD 789; the building was erected on the orders of 
the ‘amir Dinar (?), tnawla of the Commander of the Believers’, apparently referring by amir 
to the governor of Ramla, i.e. jund Filastin, and carried out by ‘Abdan (?); see Repertoire 
chronologique, V, n. 53 (p. 189), cf. Van Berchem, MIE, 3(1900), 422 (I doubt whether the 
above readings are correct). 


283 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


stood ‘Amir b. ‘Umara b. Khuraym al-Na‘im Abu’l-Haydham al-Murri. 
The war began because of a quarrel between a man of the Banu’l-Qayn 
who came to grind his wheat somewhere in southern Trans-Jordan (al- 
Balqa’), and stole watermelons and marrows from one of the ‘southern’ 
tribesmen (Lakhm or Judham). Ibrahim b. Salih, one of the caliph’s 
relatives, who was in charge of affairs in al-Sham, especially in jund 
Filastln, and his son and aide Ishaq, were inclined in favour of the Yama- 
nis. There was considerable bloodshed, for the tribes ofjund Urdunn and 
the Golan also joined the struggle on the Yamanis’ side. It was only after 
decisive intervention by the caliph and his brothers, that the strife was 
brought to an end and matters calmed down on 29 December 793. 8 

[394] In AH 180 (AD 796) however, the battles between the tribes broke 
out anew. Although nothing has been explicitly said on the matter, it 
seems that the northern tribes were the instigators of this war and that the 
spearhead of their attacks was directed not only against the Yamanis, but 
also against the Abbasid regime itself, and hence the rulers saw them as 
rebels in every respect. Harun al-Rashld sent against them Ja‘far b. Yahya 
b. Khalid al-Barmakl, son of his all-powerful wazir, at the head of a large 
and magnificent army. Ja‘far put down the rebels with an iron hand and 
much blood was spilled. He appointed two men as his representatives: 
Salih b. Sulayman was to be in charge of southern Trans-Jordan (al- 
Balqa’), and ‘Isa b. al-‘AkkI was to be in charge of al-Sham. The fact that 
he left a separate person in charge of the remainder of Trans-Jordan points 
to the probability that this area was the focus of the rebellion. 

Harun al-Rashld’s strong man in Palestine until then had been Har- 
thama b. A‘yun of Khurasan, who was governor ofjund Filastln, and who 
carried out difficult missions on his behalf, such as putting dowm the 
insurrection among the tribes in Egypt. He was also involved in political 
and military matters after he was transferred from his post in Palestine in 
796, until his death on 1 August 816. 9 

8 Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, 624f; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil , VI, 127-133; Ibn ‘Asakir, VII, 176-193; 
Abu’l-Fida’, Mukhlasar, II, 13; Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, X, 168; Ibn Khaldun, ‘Ibar, III, 465. 
Ibrahim b. Salih was the cousin of the caliph al-Mahdi, and also his son-in-law: he married 
al-‘Abbasa, the caliph's daughter after she had been married to another relative, Mu¬ 
hammad b. Sulayman; Ibrahim had seniority as governor of jund Filastln; al-Mahdi 
dismissed him in 780, but through the intervention of al-Mahdl’s cousin on his mother’s 
side, Yazid b. al-Mansur, Ibrahim was returned to his post; see: Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, 500; 
Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, VI, 61; Ibn Taghri Bardi, II, 83; Ibn Habib, Muhabb., 61; Ibn al-Qiftl, 
217; Ibn Khaldun, ‘Ibar, 450, 464. According to Ibn al-Athir, ibid., 113, the governor of 
Filastln during Ibrahim’s absence, until 787, was Rawh b. Flatim, one of the central 
governing figures of the caliphate; this information is missing in Tabari, and it seems that 
Ibn al-Athir had another source for this. According to Tabari, ibid., Rawh died in AH 174, 
or AD 780, two years after he was deposed from his position. 

9 Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, 639ff; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, VI, 151f; Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, X, 175. 
Apparently the disturbances in Palestine were part of what was also happening elsewhere in 


284 



FROM THE REVOLUTION TO AL-MA’MUN [SECS. 386-410] 

5. The episode of Charlemagne 

[395] A chapter to which western scholars have given much attention is 
that of the relations between the Abbasid caliphate and the Frankish 
kingdom. This relationship is not mentioned in eastern sources at all and 
one is tempted to ask to what extent the western sources are faithful to 
events or whether they were not inclined to exaggerate. According to an 
anonymous chronicle which continued that of Fredegarius, this relation¬ 
ship had already begun in 762, in the days of al-Mansur and Pepin 
(Pippinus), Charlemagne’s grandfather, who had sent a mission to Bagh¬ 
dad, which returned after a stay of three years together with a Muslim 
( Sarracenorum) mission bearing gifts from the caliph (Amir al-mu’minm: 
Amormuni). Pepin himself escorted the caliph’s mission as far as the port of 
Marseilles, on their return journey, laden with his gifts for the caliph. 
Brehier tried to explain this rapport against the background of increas¬ 
ingly hostile relations with Constantinople and a tightening of the link 
between the Franks and the Pope, which would have enabled the Muslims 
to see the Frankish kings as the representatives of the Christian world. 10 

[396] The sources contain greater details of a similar connection be¬ 
tween Charlemagne and Harun al-Rashid. The origins of these traditions 
can be found in the accounts of contemporaries or near-contemporaries. 
The monk Bernard, who visited Jerusalem shortly after the middle of the 
ninth century, mentions the hostel which Charlemagne built there, where 
any western pilgrim (‘the Latins’) is welcomed; the Church of St Mary, 
w’ith its library established with Charlemagne’s help as w'ell; and the pious 
foundation with twelve dwellings, fields, vineyards and groves, in the 
Valley of Jehoshaphat (the Madron Valley). It emerges (though it is not 
stated explicitly) that not only the hostel and the library but the church and 
its property also were the fruit of Charlemagne’s generosity. The Byzan¬ 
tine emperor, Constantine VII (Porphyrogenitus), in his book on the 
administration of the empire, also tells of the considerable sums of money 
sent by Charlemagne to Palestine and the many monasteries he built there. 
The account of Bernard, who was an eye-witness, is supported by that of 

the caliphate, particularly in the Mosul area and in Egypt; the rebellion of the al-Hawfiy y a 
tribes (that is, the tribes of the eastern Delta and northern Sinai), who were mainly 
‘northerners’; Tabari, ibid., 629, mentions Qays (which is a collective name for the 
‘northern’ tribes) and Quda'a (a ‘southern’ tribe); see also: Ibn Kathir, ibid., 171. Har- 
thama, see Tabari, ibid., 629f, 645 (governor of Ifriqiya); 667 (commander of al-Rashld’s 
personal guard, in 802); 712 (heading the annual raid into Byzantine territories, in 807); 713 
(governor of Khurasan); Khalifa ibn Khayyat, II, 495, 499, 503ff (on the side of al-Ma’mun 
in his war against al-Amin); 506ff (fought against Shiite insurgents in 815); Ibn al-Athir, 
Kamil, VI, 141; Ibn Taghri BardI, II, 88; Ibn Kathir, Bidaya, 171; Ibn Khaldun, ‘Ibar, III, 
467; cf. the article Harthama b. A'yan (by C. Pellat) in EP. 

“ See: Fredegarius, 192; cf. Riant, MA1BL, 31(2:1884), 153: idem, AOL, 1(1881), Ilf, n. 8; 
Brehier, L’cglise, 23. 


285 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


another of Charlemagne’s contemporaries, Eginhard (Einhard). In 797, 
Charlemagne sent a delegation of three men, thejew Isaac (Isaacjudaeus), 
Lantfrid and Sigimund, to Aaron, ‘king of the Persians’; i.e. to Harun 
al-Rashld. Four years later, a delegation from al-Rash!d arrived at the port 
of Pisa, consisting of two men, one ‘a Persian from the East’ and the other 
on behalf of ‘the Amir Abraham’, most probably the governor repre¬ 
senting al-Rashid in North Africa, Ibrahim ibn al-Aghlab, as it was said 
that he was the governor in the land of Africa - in Fossato, that is, Fas. 
Charlemagne invited them to appear before him, as he was then travelling 
in Italy. He learned from them that the only member of Charlemagne’s 
mission who was still alive was Isaac the Jew' and that he was about to 
return, bearing many gifts. From the year 807 we have more information 
on delegations going back and forth: Rodbertus, Charlemagne’s envoy, 
died on his return journey from the East; ‘Abdallah, sent by the ‘king of 
the Persians’ reached Charlemagne together with George and Felix, Je¬ 
rusalem monks, envoys of the patriarch Thomas. George was a German 
and his real name w r as Egilbaldus, and he was prior of the monastery on the 
Mount of Olives. This delegation brought Charlemagne many valuable 
gifts which are described in detail in the chronicles, among them a clock 
( horologium ). They remained with him in Aachen for some time and 
afterwards made their way back through Italy. 

The pattern of these relationships is interwoven with that of Char¬ 
lemagne and the Christians injerusalem. In 799, ajerusalem monk sent by 
the patriarch came to Charlemagne with blessings and relics from the 
Holy Sepulchre. Charlemagne sent him back with Zachariah, one of the 
priests of his court, and the two were laden with gifts for the holy places. 
Zachariah returned from Jerusalem together with two monks, one from 
the monastery on the Mount of Olives and the other from Mar Saba, and 
they brought with them the blessings of the patriarch, the keys of the Holy 
Sepulchre, and keys of the city and the mount (?) as well as a flag. 
Alcuinus, the learned contemporary of Charlemagne, mentions in a letter 
he wrote in 801 to Gisla, Charlemagne’s sister, his joy on the arrival of the 
delegation of monks fromjerusalem for the coronation of Charlemagne (a 
famous occasion, being his coronation by Pope Leo III as emperor of the 
Holy Roman Empire). 

This information regarding the exchange of delegations is considered 
generally acceptable. The visits of the Jerusalem monks, envoys of the 
patriarch, and the journey of Zachariah to Jerusalem, are certainly reliable 
evidence of Charlemagne’s connections withjerusalem and confirmation 
of the account of the traveller Bernard which I have quoted above, 
concerning the buildings of the ‘Latins’ put up in Jerusalem on Char¬ 
lemagne’s initiative. However, in the following generation, we find the 


286 



FROM THE REVOLUTION TO AL-MA'MUN [SECS, 386-410] 

monk from St Gallen, Notker the Stammerer, who not only describes the 
connections but adds that ‘the Persian king’ that is, Harun al-Rashld, 
called Charlemagne ‘my brother’ and that he would have been prepared to 
give him Palestine as patrimony, but feared that Charlemagne could not 
defend it from the barbarians, because of the distance. Nevertheless, he 
granted him the rights of possession (. . . in eius potestatem ), and he, 
al-Rashld, saw himself merely as Charlemagne’s representative (. . . ad- 
vocatus eius ero super earn). These are naturally fantasies of the writer. 
According to Notker, the links with Jerusalem continued into the day of 
his son and successor, Louis the Pious. He mentions that during the reign 
of both these rulers, a tax of one denarius (a coin introduced by Char¬ 
lemagne, with ca. 1.7 grams of silver content) was levied on every house¬ 
hold in the empire for the benefit of the Christians in Jerusalem, whose 
poverty cried out for help from the West. Indeed, mention of the order 
given by Charlemagne in 810 arranging the matter of donations to Jerusa¬ 
lem to be used for the restoration of ‘God’s churches’, has been 
preserved. 11 

[397] The reports on the connections between Charlemagne and Harun 
al-Rashld gradually assumed the proportions of a myth, at the heart of 
which stood Charlemagne’s status vis-a-vis Jerusalem and its holy places. 
Towards the end of the eleventh century, the monk Benedictus recorded a 
story according to which Charlemagne went on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem 
and visited the Holy Sepulchre together with Harun al-Rashld. He 
adorned everything in gold and Harun al-Rashld then decided that all the 
places would be inscribed in Charlemagne’s name and that he would have 
the rights of possession (potestas eius). The two returned together to 
Alexandria, and the brotherhood between the Arabs and the Franks rose 
sky-high, as if they were each other’s flesh and blood. 12 

11 Bernard, in Tobler et Molinier, I, 314. See on the church of St Mary also below, in the 
chapter on the Christians. Constantinus Porphyrogenitus, De administrando imperio (Mo- 
ravcsik), 108 (ch. xxvi) = ed. Bonn (CSHB) 1840, 115; MPG, 113, 228f; Eginhard: 
Einhardi atmales, 186-189, 190, 194. See on Eginhard: Manitius, Geschichte , I, 639, 646f; 
Alcuinus’ letter: Alcuini epistolae, 358 (No. 214). See: Monachi Sangallensis (= Notker 
Balbulus), De gestis Karoli, 752f; see on Notker: Manitius, ibid., 354f; cf. on Notker’s 
evidence also: Von Grunebaum, Classical Islam, 97f. See further: Annates Iuvavenses 
maiores , 87: Charlemagne arrives in Iuvavum (Salzburg) in 803 together with envoys from 
Jerusalem. Charlemagne’s order on donations to Jerusalem: Caroli Magni codex diplomat¬ 
ics, 328, capitularia ami 810: ad Hierusalem propter ecclesias Dei restaurandas. 

12 Benedictus Monachus, Chronicon, MGH (SS), III, 710f (= MPL 139, 34f); see on the 
author of the chronicle: Baix etjadin, in DHGE, VIII, 241; they note that Benedictus was 
the first to quote this story, and decide (‘without a doubt’) that he took it from a source that 
has been lost in the meantime (about which I am very doubtful). Benedictus’ story was the 
nucleus from which the journey of Charlemagne to Jerusalem grew into folklore; see an 
English version of the story in Schlauch, Medieval Narrative, 77-101. The traditions from 
the chronicles of Eginhard and Notker were copied in later sources, such as William of 
Tyre, 14f (ch. iii); Enhardi Fuldensis annales, 352; Chronicon Moissiacense (which is 


287 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


[398] In historical research, an element of scepticism began to emerge at 
a fairly early stage towards some of the sources in which the descriptions 
of the links between Charlemagne and the Christians of Jerusalem were 
viewed as highly exaggerated. Riant, for instance, in 1881, already voices 
the opinion that many of these sources are part of the myth of an alleged 
military campaign by Charlemagne to Palestine. This myth developed a 
long time after the Crusaders’ campaigns, in the fifteenth and sixteenth 
centuries, and grew out of an inclination to view Charlemagne as the first 
of the Crusaders. Riant points to the apocryphal character of letters 
ascribed to John, patriarch of Jerusalem, and the Emperor Constantine V 
(Copronymus) and his son Leo IV (the Khazar), written to Charlemagne 
in the years 768-775, which contain an invitation to join in the liberation of 
the holy places. Below we shall find that there was no patriarch named 
John at the time. On the other hand, in 1926, Kleinclausz came out against 
the exaggerated criticism of the sources dealing with Charlemagne. He 
also touched on the problem of the absolute silence on the subject in Arab 
sources; in his opinion, this was not surprising because these sources 
scarcely dealt with the Christian world at all, not even with the eastern 
part, which was within their own vicinity. In his view, the connections 
between Charlemagne and the Caliphate are well accounted for by their 
mutual interests, and brought about mainly by the necessity to defend 
themselves from their common enemies: the Umayyad caliphs in Cor¬ 
dova and the Byzantines. The symbolic rights granted to Charlemagne by 
Harun al-Rashid should not be seen as ceding the latter’s sovereignty but 
principally as a guarantee of the security of the Christians in Palestine after 
the waves of persecution they had endured. In contrast to the reliable 
historic core in Eginhard, this scholar points to the extravagances in 
Notker and those who followed in his wake. In an article in 1928, Brehier 
also tried to attack the extreme doubts regarding the sources on the 
episode, after his own views on Charlemagne’s so-called ‘protectorate’ of 
the holy places in Jerusalem were criticised by Kleinclausz andjoranson. In 
this article, he defined the three factual contexts of the episode: (1) the 
persecution of the Christians that preceded these connections; (2) the 
exchange of missions (he enumerates them as being nine) between the 
Franks and the Caliphate for twenty years; and (3) the Frankish (‘Latin’) 
institutions which were established in Jerusalem at the beginning of the 
ninth century. In order to substantiate the validity of his comments, he 
made a detailed survey of the persecution of the Christians in the pre- 
Charlemagne period. I shall deal with this matter in the chapter on the 
Christians; but at this point another aspect of this relationship should be 

Meissen-on-the-Oder), 305; in these three places, some of Eginhard’s tale is repeated, and 

there are many similar instances. 


288 



FROM THE REVOLUTION TO AL-MA'MUN [SECS. 386-410] 

mentioned, which has been ignored by those who saw in Charlemagne a 
kind of defender and protector of the Christians in Jerusalem in general. 
The truth is that the inner circles of the Church in the west, with the Pope 
at its core, whose views were represented by Charlemagne, were imbued 
with hatred towards those Christians with whom they differed on vital 
theological issues of historic significance, and constantly tied up with the 
secular political struggle between the Franks and the Byzantines. Hence 
there certainly could have been anti-Christian persecution in Jerusalem, 
while the Muslims gave preference to the Latins, who were also the 
enemies of the Byzantines as they were themselves. A third factor in the 
antagonism toward Byzantium and its ecclesiastic representatives in Pal¬ 
estine was thejews, for whom Byzantium was Edom the Wicked. It is not 
unlikely, then, that Isaac thejew took part in Charlemagne’s delegation to 
Harun al-Rashld not only because he could (possibly) act as interpreter, as 
some have believed, but perhaps also because thejews were allied to the 
views and hopes of the two major parties in these contacts. 13 

6. Muslim personalities in Palestine in the days of al-Mahdl, al-Hadi and Harun al- 

Rashid 

[399] The central figure in the administration of al-Mahdi’s day was the 
son of a converted Jew, a client of the Banu Ash‘ar from Tiberias, Abu 
‘Abdallah Mu‘awiya b. Yashar (in the Arabic source: Yashar; and there are 
versions of his father’s name: Yasar, and: ‘Ubaydallah; it seems that his 
father, Yashar, received the name ‘Ubaydallah when he converted to 
Islam), who was born in 718. He was evidently the first to instil new 
contents and significance in the office of wazlr, by personally taking on the 
management of most of the kingdom’s affairs, especially its taxes, and he 
is also believed to have introduced reforms in the system of taxation. Due 
to his honesty, he evidently made many enemies, a fact which led to his 
son Muhammad (another version: ‘Abdallah) being accused of heresy (the 
claim that he was a zindtq; i.e. a Manichaean, and perhaps this was the 
truth). Al-Mahdl ordered Mu‘awiya to kill his son by his own hand, and as 

13 Among the first researchers who dealt with the connection between Charlemagne and the 
Caliphate, and the matter ofjerusalem, see: Tobler, Golgatha, 111; Riant, AOL , 1(1881), 
9-13; see further Berliere, Revue benedictine, 5(1888), 440ff. Riant, MAIBL, 31(2, 1884), 
155f; Vincent et Abel, Jerusalem 11(2), 938; Baumstark Palastinapilger, 29f assumed that 
Charlemagne had to put up buildings for the use of pilgrims from the West (the Latins) 
because the Nea, which had all the services needed by the pilgrims, had been taken by the 
Muslims (which is evidently incorrect, see below the discussion on the Nea); Kleindausz, 
Syria , 7(1926), 212-233; see the bibliography and comprehensive discussion in Joranson, 
AHR , 32:241, 1927; interpretation of the sources: Brehier, L’eglise, 25ff; he stresses the fact 
that the initiative to establish connections came from the Franks and not from the caliph. 
See his article in RH, 157:277, 1928; see an additional summary of the sources and the 
discussions in research: Runciman, EHR, 50:606, 1935; see also Musca, Carlo Magno , 43f. 


289 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


he was incapable of doing so, he ordered the son to be killed in his father’s 
presence and even forced the father to engage in writing for the caliph with 
his son’s corpse lying nearby. According to al-Jahshiyarf, the son Mu¬ 
hammad was found to be a zindTq when al-Mahdl commanded him to 
quote something from the Koran, and he said: ‘You are blessed, as are 
Your worlds, thanks to the magnificence of what you have created’. 
According to Tabari, Mu'awiya included a passage from the Koran in his 
testament, iii:19, which says that knowledge is the cause of divisions 
between the Peoples of the Book. Mu‘awiya was very learned in matters 
of tradition and literature, and he is attributed with having produced a 
book on taxes entitled kitab al-kharaj, which was the first of its kind. 
According to Tabari, he was ousted from his position by al-Mahdi in AH 
167 (AD 783/4). He died in AH 169 or 170 (AD 785/6 or 786/7). 14 

[400] During the same period in Ascalon, there lived another descendant 
of Jews who had converted to Islam, Abu Ghassan Muhammad b. Mut- 
arrif b. Da’ud al-Laythi, who came from Medina and settled in Palestine. 
He corresponded with a famous Muslim scholar, Malik b. Anas. Some say 
that he was one of the descendants of those who converted and were taken 
under the aegis of Caliph ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab’s family. It is also said that 
he hailed from WadT’l-Qura, the well-known Jewish region in northern 
Hijaz, on the Palestinian border. It is known that during al-Mahdi’s time, 
he lived in Baghdad. He died in AH 170, that is, AD 786/7. 15 

[401-402] In the neighbourhood of Nabulus, in the village of‘Aqraba, 
there lived one of the retainers of al-Shafi‘I (founder of the famous legal 
school called after him), Shihab al-Din Ahmad al-‘Aqrabani, of Egypt; he 
died in ‘Aqraba in AH 180 (AD 796/7). Al-Walld b. Muhammad al- 
Muwaqqari al-Balqawi, of the stronghold of al-Muwaqqar in southern 
Trans-Jordan (al-Balqa’) was a pupil of al-Zuhri; he died in AH 182 (AD 
798). 16 Abu ‘All (or Abu ‘Abdallah) ‘Abd al-Rahman b. al-Qasim al- 
‘Utaqi was the pupil of Malik b. Anas for twenty years; he was one of the 

14 Mas'udT, Tanbih, 343; Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, 487: he was hated by the non-Muslims (the 
mawait) and did everything he could to keep them away from al-Mahdi. On his Jew¬ 
ishness: ibid., 490, which also contains the story of the killing of his son Muhammad, on 
al-Mahdl’s order, on the accusation of heresy. See further: Ibn Tiqtaqa, al-Fakhri, 246-250; 
al-'uyun wa’l-hada’iq, 281; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, VI, 75, 79; al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, Ta’rikh, 
XIII, 196f. Jahshiyari, 102-118, and see the saying on p. 113, tabarak wa-‘alamiika bi- 
‘uzmT’l-khalqi, sounds like a metamorphosis of a version of a Jewish prayer. Vajda, RSO, 
17(1937/8), 187ff, did not notice that Mu‘awiya was of Jewish extraction; see there 
additional sources; his tentative translation: sois beni (ou tu es beni) aittsi que tes mondes par la 
grandeurde la creation. The testament: Tabari, ibid., Ill, 532; see also: Ibn Khallikan, VI, 21, 
26. Ya'qubi, Ta’rikh, II, 482f; Aghanl, III, 153f; cf. Moscati, Orientalia, NS 15(1946), 162ff; 
the article Abu ‘Ubayd Allah (by S. Moscati), in EP; Sezgin, 519. 

15 KhazrajI, 307; ‘Iyad, I, 298; Safadi, il-Wajt, V, 34; Busti, 181 (No. 1431); Ibn Hajar, 
Tahdhtb, IX, 461 f. ’ 

16 Khalidi, 169, 


290 



FROM THE REVOLUTION TO AL-MA’MUN [SECS. 386-410] 

descendants of the slaves in Ta’if who were freed by the Prophet. He lived 
in Ramla and afterwards in Egypt and died in Safar, AH 191 (December 
AD 806). 17 

[403-408] Abu Mas‘ud Ayyub b. Suwayd al-Shaybani al-FIimyari, who 
came from southern Arabia, lived in Ramla. He was the pupil of the 
scholar of Eilat, the aforementioned Yunus b. Yazid. The orthodox 
Islamic scholars of later generations accused him of in venting hadlths and 
of attributing to himself hadlths taught by others. He drowned off the 
coast of Palestine after returning from a pilgrimage to Mecca, in AH 193 
(AD 809). 18 Abu ‘Uthman ‘Anbasa b. Khalid b. Yazid b. Abl’l-Najjad was 
a man of Eilat, nephew of the above mentioned Yunus b. Yazid, who was 
also a mawla of the Umayyads, and he died injumada I, AH 198 0anuary 
AD 814). 19 Abu Sufyan Wakl‘ b. al-Jarrah b. Mallh al-RawasI was a native 
of the Naysabur region; some say that he was born in Sughd (the Sogdiana 
in central Asia). He was one of the important scholars in Kufa and it was 
noted that he never held a book during his lessons thanks to his excellent 
memory. He was a money-changer (jahbadh) by profession, and out of 
sheer modesty, refused to accept the post of cadi when it was offered to 
him. Towards the end of his life, he lived in Jerusalem and died in ‘Ashurd 
(10th of Muharram) in the year AH 197 (20 September AD 812), after 
returning from a pilgrimage to Mecca. He wrote several books, among 
them a musannaf, a collection of hadlths, which has been lost. 20 Al-Kindl 
mentions three people from Hadramawt in the southern part of the 
Arabian peninsula who were appointed cadis in jund Filastln during the 
period we are dealing with: Damdam b. ‘Uqba, ‘Abd al-Salam ibn ‘Ab¬ 
dallah and al-Nu‘man b. Mundhir. 21 Abu Zakarlya’ Yahya b. ‘Isa b. ‘Abd 
al-Rahman al-Nahshall, of Ramla, was born in Kufa and kept up his 
contacts with the area, dealing in the export of oil from Palestine to Kufa 
and elsewhere (the Nahshal being a large clan of the Banu Tamlm). He 
died in AH 201 (AD 817). 22 Abu ‘Abdallah Damra b. Rabl‘a al-Qurashl 
was also from Ramla, son of a family of Damascene converts to Islam. He 

17 Ibn Khallikan, III, 129; ‘ lyad, I, 433; Ibn al-Athir, Lubab, II, 120; Suyuti, Muhddara, I, 303; 

Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VI, 252f. Cf. Brockelmann, GAL, S I, 299. 

,s Sam'ani, Ansab, VI, 170; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, 405f. 

19 Sam‘anl, ibid., I, 410; Ibn Hajar, ibid., VII, 154. 

70 Ibn Sa‘d, VI, 275; al-Khatlb al-Baghdadi, Ta’rikh, XIII, 466-481 (on p. 475: he was a 
jahbadh)', Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, XI, 123-131; 'Ulaytnl, 260; cf. Sezgin, I, 96f, and additional 
references there. 

21 Kindi, 425. ‘Abd al-Salam b. ‘Abdallah is the unidentified ‘Abd al-Salam mentioned by 
El‘ad, Cathedra, 24(1981/2). 37, in connection with the sources on the markets ofjerusa- 
lem. It is he who was ordered by the caliph al-Mahdi to erect a bench in the pavilion of the 
Dome of the Rock. 

22 Sam'ani, VI, 170; Dhahabi, 7 bar, I, 337; Ibn al-‘Imad, II, 3; Khazraji, 366f; Ibn Hajar, 
Tahdhib, XI, 262f. 


291 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


was a known expert in legal affairs and died in Ramadan AH 201 (March 
AD 817). 23 

[409] I have yet to mention one of the greatest Muslim scholars of all 
times, namely Abu ‘Abdallah Muhammad b. Idris al-Shafi‘i. He was a 
Palestinian, born in Gaza (though information on his place of birth is 
conflicting; some say Ascalon, while others say Yaman, for example). 
When he was but a child, he moved with his mother to Mecca. He visited 
Jerusalem as an adult, and died on the last day of $afar AH 204, that is the 
25th of August AD 819. 24 

7. The uprisings of the years 807-810 

[410] In 807, rebellion broke out in Eilat, in southern Palestine, led by a 
man named Abu’l-Nida’. Harun al-Rashid sent an army against him under 
the command of Yahya b. Mu‘adh. In the following year, Abu’l-Nida’ 
was caught and brought to Raqqa in northern Syria, where the caliph was 
encamped at the time, and was executed on the caliph’s orders. According 
to Ibn Taghri Bardi, the uprising was caused by matters connected with 
the kharaj, that is, land taxes. Perhaps this fact should indicate that this was 
a non-Muslim rebellion as it was on non-Muslims that such taxes were 
imposed. The centre of the uprising was in Eilat. The rebels closed off the 
roads and took possession of the ‘Arava area (Madyan) and also invaded 
the rural areas farther north. The Banu Judham then joined the rebels and 
the situation became serious. Abu’l-Nida’ is described in this source as a 
highway robber and it was said that he accumulated considerable wealth 
from the spoils. The army sent against him from Iraq was joined by units 
from Egypt, under the command of its governor al-Husayn b. Jamil. We 
are told by the Samaritan chronicler Abu’l-Fath ibn Abi’l-Hasan that at 
about the same time, after the year 5239 of the Samaritan calendar, which 
is AD 807, the Samaritans were persecuted and their synagogues burned in 
Zayta, Salim and Arsuf; however it seems that this maltreatment of the 
Samaritans occurred after the death of Harun al-Rashid, in the days of 
al-Amin, and its background is not clear. Very severe disturbances took 
place in Palestine in 809. This time it was the people of Ramla (it seems that 
the source wanted to say the Bedouin tribes in jund Filastin, of which 
Ramla was the capital) who attacked the caravan which carried the collec¬ 
tion of the kharaj from Egypt to Iraq and absconded with all the money. 
The roads were again blocked to such an extent, that the governor of 
Egypt, who was called to appear in Baghdad, was forced to make his way 

23 Ibn ‘Asakir, VII, 36f; DhahabI, Thar, I, 337; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, IV, 460f. 

24 See al-Khatlb al-Baghdadl, Ta’rikh, II, 56; DhahabI, Thar, I, 343; Ibn al-Athlr, Lubdb, II, 5; 

Ibn Khallikan, IV, 165; Ibn al-‘lmad, II, 9; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib , IX, 25ff; ‘Ulayml, 260f; cf. 

Sezgin, I, 484-490. 


292 



FROM THE REVOLUTION TO AL-MA’MUN [SECS. 386-410] 

through the Hijaz. To judge by Theophanes’ description, this was a real 
civil war which lasted for five years. Indeed, one should remember that 
these rebellions in Palestine took place near the end of Harun al-Rashid’s 
life and continued during the caliphate of Muhammad al-Amln, which 
was actually a period of fratricidal war between al-Amln and his brother 
al-Ma’mun. The account of al-‘uyun wa’l-hada’iq, says that local leaders 
sprung up who turned against the central government. Ramla was ruled 
by a certain Ibn Sarh (or Ibn Sharh). The insurrections were accompanied 
by abuse and aggression towards the Christians, which I shall discuss 
below in the chapter on the Christians; and as already stated, towards the 
Samaritans as well. According to Bar Hebraeus, the rebels were led by a 
man called ‘Umar (and he is possibly the same aforementioned Abu’l- 
Nida’), who in 1121 Sel., which is AD 810, gathered together a band of 
robbers and began to attack, kill and rob wayfarers on the roads in 
Palestine. In all, it is difficult to define the exact nature of these events, 
which lasted, as we have seen, for at least three years. It seems that the 
rebellion of the non-Muslim rural population was interwoven with the 
uprising of the tribes, whereas during the final stages there may have been 
some link between what was happening in Palestine and the war waged 
between the brothers al-Amln and al-Ma’mun for the throne. Within this 
framework, the non-Muslim inhabitants suffered from severe acts of 
persecution and abuse, and particularly the destruction of their houses of 
prayer. (The sources mention churches and Samaritan synagogues, but 
one can assume that the Jews were also affected.) 

It is also possible that at that final stage, there was a connection between 
the events in Palestine and the Sufyani (named after Abu Sufyan, head of 
the Umayyad clan who lived in the Prophet’s time) anti-Abbasid uprising, 
with its (Muslim) Messianic colouring. The centre of the uprising was 
Damascus and it was headed by ‘All b. ‘Abdallah b. Khalid b. Yazid b. 
Mu‘awiya. It began in Dhu’l-Hijja AH 195, that is, September AD 811. 
The rebels expelled the Abbasid governor Sulayman b. Abuja'far (the son 
of the caliph al-Mansur) from Damascus. Abbasid reinforcements sent to 
Damascus did not arrive because of the war between al-Amln and al- 
Ma’mun. Apparently the major supporters of that rebellion were the Banu 
Quda‘a, which one can assume from a remark attributed to al-Ma’mun. 
The mother of‘All b. ‘Abdallah was Nafisa b. ‘Ubaydallah, a descendant 
of ‘All b. Abi Talib, and he pretended to be the representative of both 
houses, that of the Umayyads and that of the ‘Alids. He was known as 
Abu’l-‘Umaytar. He had supporters in Sidon, led by Khattab, son of the 
converted client (mawla) of the Umayyads, Wajh al-Fuls, and they took 
control of the city. It was said that the leader, Abu ‘Umaytar, was aged 90 
at the time of the rebellion. He was supported by the ‘southern’ tribes 


293 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


(Kalb, and I have already mentioned Quda‘a) and he endeavoured to 
attract the ‘northerners’ (Qays) as well, but did not succeed, and battles 
ensued between the two camps. The ‘southerners’ suffered severe losses 
and despite the desperate efforts of al-Qasim, son of the rebellion’s leader, 
they were beaten. Al-Qasim fell in battle and his head was sent to al-Amln. 
In Muharram AH 198 (September AD 813), the ‘northerners’ achieved 
their final victory and the ‘Sufyanf was forced to flee from Damascus in 
the guise of a woman. Shortly afterwards, the army of the victorious 
caliph, al-Ma’mun, entered the city. 25 


The days of al-Ma’mun and his successors 

[411] The uprisings of the ‘northerners’ continued during the days of 
al-Ma’mun and this time they were headed by Nasr b. Shabath (or Nasr b. 
Sayyar b. Shabath) oftheBanu ‘Uqayl, based in Kaysum in northern Syria 
(to the north of Aleppo). He succeeded in maintaining his stand against the 
caliph’s army for eleven years, from AH 198 until AH 209, that is, from 
AD 813 to 825/6. According to the Samaritan chronicler Abu’l-Fath, the 
rebels caused the Samaritans much suffering, and it would appear that this 
was due to their loyalty to al-Ma’mun. While the rebels were abusing the 
Samaritans and trying to convert them to Islam (leading the rebels in this 
pursuit was a certain Abu Firasa), the army, under the command of 
‘Abdallah ibn Tahir, was defending them. Abu’l-Fath also states that the 
insurgents murdered the governor ofjericho and, in his words, the caliph 
himself came to Palestine with an armed force to subdue them (which is 
naturally not true). Ibrahim, the caliph’s brother, took Bet Guvrin from 
the rebels and captured their leaders. The chronicler adds that after putting 
down the rebellion, there followed a period during which the severest of 
taxes were imposed on the Samaritans by the governor, Abu’l-Jarud, 
(which is not known from any other source). During the period of 
al-Mu‘tasim’s rule (833-842) the Samaritans’ situation again deteriorated 
and there were riots against them in Nabulus and the synagogues of‘the 
Samaritans and the Dositheans’ were burnt down. 26 

25 Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, 711, 732; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, VI, 205, 208. Al-'uyun wa’l-hadh’iq, 363. 
Ibn Taghri BardI, II, 135, 141. Abu’l-Fath, LXXX; Theophanes, I, 484 (cf. Breyer, 148); 
BarHebraeus (Bedjan), 135; cf. the translation (Budge), 124; cf. Wiistenfeld, Statthalter, II, 
26. On the events of811, see: Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, 830; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, VI, 249f; 432 
(the saying of al-Ma'mun); see also a short account in Ya'qubi, Ta’rikh, II, 532. ‘All b. 
‘Abdallah’s nickname was given to him since he asked his council, what was the kunya of 
the lizard; he was the only one who knew the answer: Abu ‘Umaytar, and since then he 
was given this nickname. 

26 See Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, 845, 1067-1073; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, VI, 297, 388-391; Abu’l- 
Fath, LXXXf. In fact, heavy taxes were evidently imposed on the Samaritans even before 
this; according to Baladhuri, Futiih, 158, the caliph Yazld (Mu‘awiya’s son) levied kharaj 
on the lands belonging to the Samaritans in jund Urdunn andjund Filastln and every man 


294 



AL-MA’MUN AND HIS SUCCESSORS [SECS. 411-416] 

[412-413] Apparently during Harun al-Rashid’s day and subsequently 
as well, the Baghdad rulers governed Palestine with an iron hand (and this 
applied also to other regions) in all matters relating to taxation. This leads 
one to understand al-Ma’mun’s interest in measurements. In his time, the 
degree of longitude (dawr al-ard, the circumference of the earth) was 
calculated and maps were drawn up. Perhaps this is what the midrash 
written in the Middle Ages was speaking of, when it says of the kingdom 
of Ishmael, that as it has come, ‘they will measure the land with ropes, for 
it is said: and shall divide the land for gain (Dan., xi:39). And they turn 
graveyards into pasture for sheep and places for refuse’. 27 

In the days of al-Ma’mun, evidently in 814, Palestine suffered from a 
period of severe hunger due to a plague of locusts. According to Sa‘Id ibn 
Bitriq, this brought about a very serious decline in the number of Muslims 
in Palestine, ‘so that only a few of them remained’. 28 

[414] The information at our disposal about what went on in Palestine 
during the days of al-Ma’mun and his successor, al-Mu‘tasim, is rather 
scanty. At the outset of the caliphate ofal-Wathiq (842-847), a widespread 
rebellion broke out in Palestine; this was the rebellion of Abu Harb 
Tamlm, called al-Mubarqa‘ (the veiled). Arab tribes and farmers from the 
south of Palestine took part in this uprising and their leader was said to be a 
‘Yamatil’, that is, belonging to one of‘the tribes of the south’, which was 
the Bahu Lakhm in this case. The initial cause of the rebellion was said to 
have been a personal quarrel between Abu Harb and one of the soldiers of 
the caliphate who wanted to enter Abu Harb’s house in his absence. Abu 
Harb’s wife (some say his sister) tried to prevent him from entering and 
the soldier then beat her with his whip. When Abu Harb returned home, 
saw the whip-lash on his wife’s arm, and heard an account of what had 
occurred, he went out to seek the assailant. When he found him, he slashed 
him with his sword. Afterwards he fled to ‘one of the mountains of 
Urdunn’, covering his face with a veil lest he be recognised. Then a 
number of farmers and villagers from the neighbourhood joined him and 

was obliged to pay two dinars in Urdunn, while in Filastln - five; cf.: Lammens, Yazid, 
391. In al-Mutawakkil's time, the tax in jund Filastln was decreased to three dinars. It is 
difficult to understand what was behind this attitude of discriminating against the Samar¬ 
itans; according to Baladhurl, ibid, (he notes that there are two types of Samaritans: Dastati 
and Kushan), Harun al-Rashid turned the Samaritan-owned land, after a terrible plague 
that devastated their country, into state-owned land. Baladhurl is referring to the Nabulus 
area. As to Ibrahim, he evidently means Ibrahim b. Muhammad al-Mahdl, Harun al- 
Rashld’s brother. 

27 The measurement, see: Abu’l-Fida’, Taqwim al-bulddti, 14. Maps: Mas'udI, Tanbth, 33. 
The midrash, see the ‘Mysteries of R. Shimon Bar Yohai’, in Jellinek, Beil ha-midrash. 111, 
78f; Wertheimer, Balte Midrashot, II, 507; see a similar version in the Pirqe R. Eliezer, ch. 
xxx, cf. Chwolsohn, Ssabier, I, 98, n. 4, who was the first to notice this parallel. 

28 Sa’Id ibn Bitriq, II, 55; Papadopoulos-Kerameos, Analekta, III, 4; Abu’l-Fath, LXXX (and 
here the year is: 198 of the hijra, AD 813/4). 


295 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


he preached to them the doctrine of doing good and refraining from evil, 
out of which the rumour spread that he was the Sufyani, that is, the 
Messiah awaited by the followers of the Umayyads. Afterwards, a 
number of notables of the tribes, especially from the ‘southern’ tribes, 
together with their leader Ibn Bayhas and two important Damascenes, 
linked up with him. The caliph al-Mu‘tasim sent some thousand men 
under the command of Raja’ b. Ayyub against him, but Abu Harb’s forces 
were infinitely superior and Raja’ preferred to wait. Indeed, when plough¬ 
ing time came around, each of the farmers returned to his land and few 
remained behind with Abu Harb. At that point, the Abbasid army pre¬ 
pared for battle. Abu Harb attacked and the army retreated. He attacked 
again and again the army withdrew, but according to a pre-arranged plan, 
they succeeded in separating Abu Harb from his men. He was caught and 
brought to the caliph, as were the other leaders of the rebellion. The 
Samaritan chronicler Abu’l-Fath has additional details: Abu Harb con¬ 
quered Nabulus and caused its inhabitants to flee; the Samaritan high priest 
was injured while escaping to Hebron and died of his wounds. According 
to the Syriac sources, Abu Harb overtook Jerusalem and there, too, 
brought about the evacuation of all the inhabitants - Muslims, Christians 
and Jews. He robbed the mosques and the churches and was about to set 
fire to the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, but was dissuaded from doing so 
in exchange for a large payment of gold sent him by the patriarch. 29 

[415] In al-Mutawakkil’s day (847-861) an event occurred, which 
though geographically removed from Palestine, was certainly felt there 
and undoubtedly made an impression on its inhabitants; this was the 
uprising of the Christians in Hims. This rebellion broke out injumada AH 
241 (October AD 855). All the indications suggest that taxation was the 
immediate cause of the uprising, which according to Tabari, was directed 
against the man in charge of supplies. He was a Persian, as can be seen from 
his name, Muhammad b. ‘Abdawayh. The caliph ordered the rebellion to 

Ya'qub!, Ta’rikh, II, 586; Tabari, Ta’nkh, III, 1319-1322; there may have been some 
confusion between this rebellion and the rebellion during the days ofal-Ma’mun (above), 
see in Tabari, ibid., 1908, in note i, a version saying that ‘Abdallah b. Tahir brought Ibn 
Bayhas (other versions: Ibn Abfl-Saqar; Ibn Ab! Asqar; Ibn Ab! Ashqar ‘the redhead’) as 
captive to al-Ma’mun in AH 211, i.e. AD 826; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, VI, 522f; Ibn Taghri 
Bard!, II, 248f; Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, X, 295; Sibt Ibn al-Jawz! (BM Or 4618), under the year 
AH 227; Tha'alibi, Lata’if 142 (includes Abu Harb among the four who killed more than a 
hundred thousand men, together with: al-Hajijaj b. Yusuf, Abu Muslim, Babak); Ibn 
Khaldun, ‘Ibar, III, 572; Abu’l-Fath, LXXXII: according to him the rebellion put an end to 
a period ot peace and prosperity among the Samaritans, when Pinhas b. Nethanel and 
Dartha repaired the synagogue in Nabulus, and this was a time when the division between 
the Samaritans and the Dositheans became much deeper. See on the rebellion in Syriac 
sources as well: Michael the Syrian, III, 103; Bar Hebraeus (Bedjan), 152; (Budge), 139. 
Despite the addendum on Jerusalem, it seems that the Syriac, as well as the Muslim 
writers, took their information from Tabari; cf. Goitein, Yerushalayim, 1952/3, 93. 


296 



THE ABBASID CALIPHS AND JERUSALEM [SECS. 417-419] 


be suppressed in the cruellest manner, to burn all the churches, to expel all 
the Christians from the city and to execute the leaders by whipping and 
crucifying. The subduing of the rebellion was carried out by an army sent 
from Damascus and led by the Turk Salih, and by additional forces sent 
from Ramla. The major source, Tabari, inclines one to believe that many 
Christians resided in Hirns at the time and that this population was 
completely wiped out. 30 

[416] We hear about earthquakes throughout the caliphate in the years 
AH 242 (AD 856/7) and AH 245 (AD 859/60). According to Tabari, the 
first province to be affected was principally Khurasan, and this was in 
Sha'ban, that is, December 856 or January 857. The number of dead 
reached 45,096 souls and the afflicted were mainly in the Qumis region and 
its major city, Damghan. (The geographer Muqaddasl’s grandfather on 
his mother’s side as well as the Karaite leader Daniel al-Qumisi were 
natives of this place. We may perhaps find in this event a possible expla¬ 
nation for their leaving the place and settling in Jerusalem, apart from 
Daniel’s clear ideological motivation, which will be discussed.) Ibn Kathir 
says that the earthquake also reached al-Sham (Syria and Palestine), but we 
have no further details on this occurrence. Another earthquake hit the 
Maghrib, according to Tabari, but there were also earthquakes in Bagh¬ 
dad, in Syria (Antioch, Ladhiqiyya, Tarsus and elsewhere), and in Egypt, 
especially in Bilbays, 31 


The Abbasid caliphs and Jerusalem 

[417] A hadith attributed to the Prophet by his retainer Abu Hurayra 
says: ‘Black flags will go out of Khurasan and nothing shall thwart them 
until they are firmly hoisted in Iliya’ Qerusalem). Naturally, this saying 
was devised at the outset of Abbasid rule, as black was the Abbasid colour. 
There is certainly some special symbolic significance in the choice of 
Jerusalem as the goal of their war, perhaps because it was considered the 
most sacred place in al-Sham, the power-base of Umayyad rule. 

Al-Mansur, as soon as he had established his sovereignty, found it 
imperative to visit Jerusalem and pray in the mosque there, on his return 
from his pilgrimage to Mecca in 141, that is (September) 758. Thirteen 
years later, in AH 154 (AD 771), he made a special visit tojerusalem while 
passing through al-Sham. According to Wasiti, on his first visit, he had 


30 Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, 1422f; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil , VII, 76; Sibt Ibn al-jawzl (BM Or 4618), 
under the year 241 (fol. 112a). 

51 Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, 1433, 1439; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, VII, 81, 87; Ibn Kathir, Biddya, X, 
343; cf. Wustenfeld, Statthalter, II, 56. 


297 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


ordered the renovation of the Dome of the Rock, which had collapsed 
during the earthquake in the year AH 130. 32 

[418] Al-Mahdi also visitedjerusalem, in AH 163, that is AD 780, with a 
large family party: ‘Abbas b. Muhammad, Fadl b. Salih, ‘All b. Sulayman 
and Yazid b. al-Mansur (Al-Mahdi’s brother). This visit was made at the 
height of fierce and constant warring with the Byzantines, in which the 
Muslims were at first having the worse of it but which ended with a 
decided victory on their part. At the time of al-Mahdi’s visit to Jerusalem, 
the caliphal army, under the command of his son Harun, were pressing 
westward through Aleppo to attack the Byzantines, and this was the 
first move in the Muslims’ favour. Poliak’s view was that al-Mahdi’s visit 
to Jerusalem had a definitely symbolic-religious meaning - that of the 
Messiah visiting Jerusalem - just as the names of this caliph had a genu¬ 
inely theological significance: Muhammad b. ‘Abdallah (like that of the 
Prophet and his father) al-Mahdl (‘the Messiah’). 33 

[419] Nothing is said in any source of al-Ma’mun having visitedjerusa¬ 
lem. As we know, his name was entered in an inscription in the Dome of 
the Rock in place of that of ‘Abd al-Malik, in Rabi‘ II AH 216, that is 
May/June AD 831. The alteration in the inscription was made by Salih b. 
Yahya, who called himself a rrtawla of the caliph {amir al-mu’mimn), at the 
time when Abu Ishaq, that is Muhammad the brother of al-Ma’mun, was 
governor ofEgypt and al-Sham. It is known that al-Ma’mun left Baghdad 

32 See thehadlth in TirmidhI, Sunan, abwab al-fitan , end (in the Medina edition: III, 362, No. 
2371); Ibn Kathir, Shama’il, Ml (attributing it to Ahmad Ibn Hanbal); SuyutI, Khasa’is, II, 
431; idem , Ta’rikh, 216 (attributing it to a converted Jew named Joseph). Al-Mansur in 
Jerusalem: Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, I28f, 372; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, V, 500, 612; Ibn Taghri 
BardI, I, 336f; II, 21; DhahabI, Ta’rikh, V, 222; VI, 160; Yafi‘1, 323; Ibn Kathir, Biddy a, X, 
75, 111; Wasiti, 84; Ibn Khallikan, VI, 322; Elias ofNisibis, under the years 141, 153. 

33 ‘All b. Sulayman and Fadl b. Salih were afterwards governors in Egypt; ‘Abbas b. 
Muhammad was later on governor in Mecca. See on the visit: Tabari, Ta ’rikh , III, 500; Ibn 
al-Athir, Kami!, IV, 61; Ibn Taghri Bardi, II, 45; Isbahani, Aghdni, VI, 67; Wasiti, 84-who 
says that al-Mahdl, like al-Mansur, ordered the Dome of the Rock to be renovated, when 
he was in Jerusalem, for it was destroyed again during an earthquake; but we do not know 
of any earthquake that occurred between these two visits, and it seems to be Wasitl’s 
invention. According to him, the kanisa was also destroyed then and it seems that he is 
referring to the Church of the Holy Sepulchre; Azdl, Ta’rikh Mawsil, 243f; cf. Muir, 470f; 
Vasiliev, History', 238; see Theophanes, 452, and cf. Breyer, 105; see Poliak, Dinaburg 
Jubilee Volume , 177; Elias ofNisibis, under the year AH 163, notes that Harun, the son of 
the caliph (who afterwards became caliph, al-Rashld) visitedjerusalem then. See also: 
‘Ulayml, 250. Additional references on this matter are included in the editor’s note in 
Wasiti, p. 84; see MuqaddasI, Aqdlim, 168; Le Strange, Palestine, 92; Le Strange attributes 
the tradition on the renovation work to the al-Aqsa mosque, while Wasiti speaks specifi¬ 
cally of the Dome of the Rock. In favour of Le Strange’s claims is the fact that al-Mahdl is 
said to have ordered the cutting of the length of the mosque and to add to its width, which 
is more suited to al-Aqsa. Moreover, MuqaddasI points out that it was the al-Aqsa that 
was damaged by the earthquake during the Abbasid period. Therefore it is reasonable to 
assume that it was in need of renovation. In my opinion, it is most likely that the traditions 
refer to both mosques. 


298 



THE SIXTIES OF THE NINTH CENTURY [SECS. 420-422] 


at the beginning of AH 215, that is, in the early spring of AD 830, with the 
intention of leading the campaign against the Byzantines. He then made a 
pilgrimage to Mecca, and in the middle ofjumada I, that is, June AD 830, 
launched an offensive against the Byzantines in Asia Minor. While his 
army was to the fore in battle, al-Ma’mun made his way to Damascus. In 
June 831, he again attacked the Byzantines and remained with the army 
until the middle of Sha‘ban AH 216, that is, until October AD 831, and 
then returned to Damascus. Hence the fabrication of the inscription appar¬ 
ently occurred between these two campaigns, while al-Ma’mun was 
staying in Damascus, and it is reasonable to assume that he personally 
visited Jerusalem at this time. 34 


The sixties of the ninth century 

[420-421] Injuly 850, Caliph al-Mutawakkil divided the caliphate rule 
between his three sons. Palestine was one of the countries that fell to the 
share of Ibrahim, known as al-Mu’ayyad; we have no particulars as to 
what occurred in Palestine during his reign. 35 

In al-Musta‘in’s day (862-866) there were tribal uprisings in Palestine. 
According to Ya'qubI, rebellions broke out in jund Urdunn and the rebels 
were from the Banu Lakhm, at first led by an unidentified man and later on 
by a certain al-Qitaml. He collected the kharaj and defeated the armies sent 
against the insurgents by the governor ofjund Filastln one after the other, 
but finally the Turk Muzahim b. Khaqan defeated him. 36 

[422] At the end of 866, when al-Mu‘tazz became caliph (866-869), he 
appointed ‘Isa b. al-Shaykh b. al-Sulayl of the Banu Shayban (of the 
federation of the Rabi‘a tribes) to be governor of Ramla (that is, ofjund 
Filastln). It was said that he obtained this appointment by bribing the Turk 
who had considerable influence at court, Bugha al-Sharabl (the drunkard), 
known also by the nickname ‘the little one’ ( al-saghir ; to distinguish him 
from ‘the big Bugha’) with 40,000 dinars. ‘Isa ibn Shaykh did not go at 
once to Ramla but sent a deputy in his place, Abu’l-Mughra. According to 
Ya'qubI, the Turk Nushri b. Tajll, governor of Damascus, attacked ‘Isa 
ibn Shaykh afterwards. They fought one another in jund Urdunn and the 
son of Nushri was killed, but Nushri defeated ‘Isa’s forces, who fled from 

34 See Tabari, Ta’rikh, [II, 1102ff; (bn al-Athlr, Kamil, VI, 418, 433; cf. Van Berchem, MIE, 
3 (1900), 425; Repertoire chronologique, I, No. 209 (pp. 165f); Caskel, Felsendom, 13; see also: 
Le Strange, Palestine, 119f. Muhammad, al-Ma’mun’s brother, was the one who suc¬ 
ceeded him as caliph, al-Mu‘tasim. 

35 Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, 1395f; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, VII, 50; Ibn Taghrl BardI, II, 280; Bar 
Hebraeus (Bedjan), 155; (Budge), 142. 

36 Ya'qubI, Ta’rikh, II, 605. 


299 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


the battlefield to jund Filastm. ‘Isa himself took money wherever he could, 
and escaped to Egypt, and Ramla was taken by Nushrf. When these events 
became known to al-Mu‘tazz, he sent the Turk Muhammad b. al-Muwal- 
lad from Baghdad to set things in order and then Nushrl retreated from 
Filastm and ‘Isa b. Shaykh returned from Egypt and settled there. He 
fortified himself in a citadel which he built between Ramla and Lod and 
called it al-Hasami, and when Ibn al-Muwallad tried to subdue him he was 
unable to do so. According to some sources, ‘Isa seized the caravan 
carrying tax-monies from Egypt to Baghdad. Ya‘qubi tells further that 
‘Isa used the considerable wealth he brought with him from Egypt in order 
to bribe the Arab tribes of Rabi'a (‘the northerners’), while he married into 
the Banu Kalb (‘the southerners’). From this very fragmentary account, 
one can understand that during those years ( ca . 866-868), ‘Isa established a 
sort of Bedouin rule in Palestine, to the displeasure of the Turks, who 
fought him to no avail. This war continued during the rule of al-Muhtadi 
(869-870), who wrote to ‘Isa b. Shaykh, promising to pardon him but 
demanding that he return all the money; however ‘Isa refused. The caliph 
then ordered the governor of Egypt, Ahmad ibn Tulun, to set out and 
attack him, and indeed he arrived at al-‘Arish at the head of an army. At 
that juncture however, the caliph’s orders to return to Egypt reached him. 
‘Isa persisted in refusing to accept al-Mahdl’s authority, and afterwards 
also that of the new caliph, al-Mu‘tamid (870-892), and then the governor 
of Damascus, the Turk Amajur (or Anajur) was sent against him with 700 
Turkish soldiers. ‘Isa at first fortified himself in Tyre but afterwards 
fought back and Amajur was forced to retreat to Damascus while ‘Isa 
besieged the city. Subsequently, the Turks attacked and Mansur, ‘Isa’s 
son, and his principal aide, Abu’l-Sahba Zafar b. al-Yaman, fell in battle. 
‘Isa withdrew from the Damascus area southward to Palestinian territory, 
as far as Ramla. Tabari stresses the sizeable difference between the two 
forces: while ‘Isa had at his disposal some 20,000 men, Amajur, he writes, 
had only 200 to 400. Al-Mu‘tamid sent a delegation to ‘Isa afterwards 
(evidently in 870), consisting of Abu Nasr Isma‘11 b. ‘Abdallah al-Mar- 
wazi, the cadi Muhammad b. ‘Ubaydalla al-Kurayzi and one of his cour¬ 
tiers ( khadim ) Husayn, known by the nickname ‘Araq al-Mawt (‘the sweat 
of death’). They managed to reach an agreement with ‘Isa, whereby he 
would leave Palestine in exchange for the promise to be governor of 
Armenia; he left in Jumada II AH 257 (May AD 871). Palestine was left to 
be governed by Amajur the Turk. In the same year, fierce battles took 
place between the Arab tribes (Ya’qubI: between Lakhm andjudham, but 
this information is evidently not reliable). 37 

37 Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, 1685, 1840f; Ya'qubI, Ta’rikh , II, 601ff, 613f (the second fragment is 
not the continuation of the first but appears to be rather a repetition of the major points, 


300 



MUSLIM PERSONALITIES UNDER THE ABBASIDS [SECS. 423-454) 

More about Muslim personalities during the Abbasid period 

[423-424] During this period, three outstanding Muslim scholars lived 
in Jerusalem: Idris b. AbIKhawla al-Antaki (i.e. from Antioch), who was 
a physician, a miracle-worker and a noted man; ‘Abd al-‘Aziz al-Maqdisi 
and Ahmad b. Mas‘ud al-Khayyat (the tailor). 38 

Abu ‘Ubaydallah Muhammad ibn Karram, known as an ascetic, 
founded a sect, afterwards named after him. He was a Sijistanl by birth. 
Most of his views are not clearly known. Some say he favoured anthropo¬ 
morphism ( tashbih ), and he was therefore thought to lean towards Chris¬ 
tianity. He died in Jerusalem in Safar AH 255 (January AD 870); some say 
he died in Zoar and was brought to be buried injerusalem. A century after 
his death, al-Muqaddasi reports that there was a sect of his followers in 
Jerusalem where they had hospices ( khawaniq) and meeting places ( maja- 
lis), and he also had followers in some Persian regions, such as Naysabur 
and Jurjan. They would distribute a hadith in the name of the Prophet: ‘at 
the End of the Days, there will come a man named Muhammad b. 
Karram, and he will cause the Muslim law and community ( al-sunna 
wa’l-jama'a) to rise again; he will have a hijra similar to my hijra from 
Mecca to Medina’. Safadi tells that the amir of Ramla and Jerusalem, Yanis, 
supported Ibn Karram’s views. Mujlr al-Din al-‘UlaymI notes that he 
lived injerusalem for twenty years (that is, he stayed injerusalem from 
about 850 until 870). 39 

and Ya'qub! seems to have copied from two different sources. See ibid., further, 618, 620f. 
Here too it is noticeable that he repeats everything twice, according to different sources). 
‘Isa ibn Shaykh evidently had special connections with Tyre, which he used as the base of 
his activities in the days of al-Musta'In; see Tabari, ibid., 1585 (the year AH 251, i.e. AD 
865), where it says that he fought against a rebel named al-Muwaffaq. Theinter-tribal war: 
Ya'qubt, ibid., 623. See further accounts of‘Isa ibn Shaykh: Kindi, 214; Ibn al-Athlr, 
Kamil, VII, 163, 176; Abu’l-Fida’, Mukhtasar, II, 44; Ibn Khaldun, ‘Ibar, III, 712; IV, 639; 
on Bugha see the article Bugha al-Sharabl (by D. Sourdel), in EP. In Maqrlzl, Khitat, II, 
93f, there is a distortion and he speaks about Ahmad, son of ‘Isa ibn Shaykh, instead of 
about ‘Isa; and in his footsteps, Hasan also erred in his Ta’rikh, III, lOf. 

38 Ibn al-jawzl, Sifa, IV, 218f; Ahmad b. Mas‘ud: see Ibn ‘Asakir, II, 89 (he died in 274, 
887/8). 

39 See a comprehensive article on him in Subkl, Tabaqdt, II, 304f; see MuqaddasI, Aqdlim, 
179, 182, 323, 365; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, VII, 217; MaqdisI, Bad’, V, 141; Ibn Hazm, Milal, 
IV, 204; Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, XI, 20: he opposed the ‘amal, that is, the practical part of the 
ritual, for which he was expelled by the governor ofjerusalem to the Zoar valley, where he 
died; he was then brought back to Jerusalem to be secretly buried at night. He was buried 
near the Jericho gate close to the graves of the prophets; according to Ibn Kathlr’s 
anonymous source, he had some 20,000 followers injerusalem, which Ibn Kathir finds 
doubtful (Allahu a'lamu). He says that Ibn Karram only lived injerusalem for four years. 
Abu’l-Fida’, Mukhtasar, II, 47. The hadith is quoted by Ibn al-Ja wzl (and he points out that 
it is not genuine, of course), Mawdii'at, II, 50, and he explains that it is from Ishaq b. 
Muhamshadh’s book, the fada’il of Muhammad b. Karram; he also gives the names of 
Muhammad b. Karram’s teachers: al-Jubyari and Muhammad ibn Ghunaym a]-Sa‘dI; 
Safadi, al-Wdji, IV, 375; ‘Ulayml, 262; cf. Mez, 273; Ashtor, AESC, 27(1972), 187, n. 14 


301 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


[425-431] At that time, there lived in Ramla al-Hasan b. Waqi‘, of the 
Banu Rabfa, who immigrated to Palestine from the city of Sarakhs in 
Khurasan, and was engaged in the study of hadiths. He died in Ramla in 
AH 220, that is AD 835. 40 There was also Abu Khalid Yazid b. Khalid b. 
Yazid al-Hamadani, who was the teacher of two other scholars: Abu’l- 
‘ Abbas Muhammad b. al-Hasan ibn Qutayba (he should not be confused 
with the famous ‘Abdallah b. Muslim ibn Qutayba), and Abu Zur‘a 
al-RazI. Yazid was known for his ascetic behaviour; he died in AH 232, 
that is AD 847 (others say in AH 233 or 237). 41 Muhammad b. Sima‘a 
Abu’l-Asbagh al-Qurashi was of a mawall family who were clients of 
Caliph Sulayman b. ‘Abd al-Malik, who converted to Islam. He died in 
AH 238, that is AD 852/3. (He should not be confused with Muhammad 
b. Sima'a who was cadi in Baghdad in the days ofal-Ma’mun. ) 42 Abu ‘Abd 
al-Rahman Mu’ammal b. Ihab b. ‘Abd al-‘Aziz, of the Banu Rabi'a, was 
born in Kirman and went from there to Kufa, afterwards settling in 
Ramla, where he died on Thursday, the 7th of Rajab AH 254, that is, the 
1st ofjuly, AD 868. 43 Abu ‘Umayr ‘Isa b. Muhammad b. Ishaq was the 
son of a copper-smith (he was called ‘Ibn al-Nahhas’) from Bayt Mamin, 
‘one of the villages in the Ramla area’. He was both pious and an ascetic 
and died in Ramla, where he was buried on the 8th of Muharram AH 256 
(the 16th of December AD 869). 44 Abu ‘Imran Musa b. Sahl b. Qadim was 
born in Nasa in Khurasan and settled in Ramla. He was the teacher of Abu 
Da’ud ‘Abdallah b. Sulayman al-Sijistani, one of the great scholars of the 
law in Islam, and of Ibn Abi Hatim al-Razi, one of the outstanding writers 
and interpreters of the Koran. One of his teachers was Muhammad b. 
Rudayh b. ‘Atiyya al-Maqdisi (the Jerusalemite). He died in Ramla on 
Jumada I AH 262, that is February AD 876. He wrote a treatise on the 
people of the Prophet’s circle (the sahaba) who settled in Palestine, which 
has been lost. 45 Abu Sa‘Id Isma‘il b. Hamdawayh, of Bikand in the region 
of Bukhara, lived in Ramla. One of his pupils was thejerusalemite Ahmad 
b. Zakariya’ b. Yahya. He died in Ramla in AH 273, that is AD 887. 46 
[432—435] One can also include the following among the spiritual and 

(the reference to Yaqut, Buldan, requires correction: vol. II, instead of III); and the article 
Karramiyya (by C. E. Bosworth), in EP. 

*> Ibn Sa‘d, VII(2), 174; Ibn tfajar, Tahdhib, II, 324. 

41 Sam'anI, VI, 169; Ibn al-Athlr, Lubab, I, 476; Yaqut, Buldan, II, 819; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, 
XI, 322f. 

42 Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, IX, 203f. 

43 Al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, Ta’rikh, XIII, 181; DhahabI, ‘Ibar, II, 7; KhazrajI, 337; Ibn 
al-Tmad, II, 129; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, X, 381f; Ibn Sa‘d, VII(2), 206, mentions Abu ‘Abd 
al-Rahman al-Ayli, and evidently he is referring to Mu’ammal. 

44 Yaqut, Buldan, I, 781; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, VIII, 228f. 

43 Yaquut, Buldan, II, 819; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, X, 347; cf. Sezgin, I, 347. 

46 Ibn ‘Asakir, III, 17; Yaqut, Buldan, I, 797, 


302 



MUSLIM PERSONALITIES UNDER THE ABBASIDS [SECS. 423-454] 


intellectual Muslim personalities in Ramla at that time: Abu ‘Abdallah 
Muhammad b. ‘Abd al-‘Aziz b. Muhammad al-‘Umarf; whose family 
hailed from Wasit in Iraq and settled in Ramla. He was also known by the 
nickname Ibn al-Wasitl. 47 Abu Sulayman Ayyub b. Ishaq b. Ibrahim b. 
Safari (or Musafir), came from Baghdad and settled in Ramla. He died on 
Sunday, the 18th ofRabf II AH 260, that is the 7th ofFebruary AD 874; he 
was one of the devotees of Ahmad ibn Hanbal. 48 In Ramla there lived, for 
at least two periods, in AH 211 and in 214, that is AD 826/7 and 829, Abu 
Zur‘a ‘Abd al-Rahman b. ‘Umar b. ‘Abdallah b. Safwan al-Nasri (or 
al-Nadri; and this was sometimes distorted to al-Basri), one of the great 
anthologists of the Muslim traditions. He hailed from Damascus and died 
on Jumada II AH 281, or August AD 894. He was a follower of the 
Tulunids and was arrested in Damascus together with two others of the 
same view after the battle of Tawahln, in which Khumarawayh was 
defeated. 49 Another contemporary, Abu Musa Harun b. Zayd b. Abl’l- 
Zarqa al-Taghlibi, came from Mosul and settled in Ramla, where he was 
the pupil of Yahya ibn ‘Isa. Two pupils of this Harun are also mentioned: 
Ahmad b. Isma‘11 al-Saffar (the copper-smith) of Ramla, and the Jerusa¬ 
lemite, ‘Abdallah b. Muhammad b. Muslim. Musa b. ‘Isa al-Baghdadi, a 
Baghdadi, stayed in Ramla in the year AH 250, that is AD 864 (and there 
he quoted a hadith in the name of the Prophet which says that the tears of 
an orphan fall on God’s palm, who consoles and becalms the orphan, and 
he is promised a place in Paradise). 50 

[436-438] Some of the personalities of Tiberias are also mentioned. 
Ibrahim b. al-Walld b. Salma was the teacher of another Tiberian, Tahir b. 
‘All. 51 Abu’ 1-Fadl Salih b. Bishr b. Salima was the teacher of the Tiberian 
Hamid b. al-Hasan al-Bazzar al Mu'addal (‘seed trader’, ‘reliable witness’, 
i.e. a notary); he was evidently a mawla, for it was said of him that he was 
both a QurashT and an Azdl (that is, belonging to the tribe of Quraysh as 
well as that of Azd). 52 Abu Sa‘Id Hashim b. Marthad (or Mazyad), was also 
one of the scholars of Tiberias, and was the pupil of Adam b, Abl Iyas of 
Ascalon. 53 

[439-442] Abu’ 1-Hasan Adam b. Abi Iyas came from Khurasan, a 
mawla of Arabs of the Banu Tamlm who settled in Marw. From there he 

47 Al-Razzaz, 211f; Ibn tfajar, Tahdhib, IX, 313. 

48 Al-Khatlb al-Baghdadf, Ta'rilth , VII, 9; Ibn ‘Asakir, III, 200f; Ibn Abl Yaia, I, 117f; Ibn 
Taghri Bard!, III, 31f (according to whom his manners were bad). 

49 DhahabI, ‘ Ibar , II, 65f; cf. Sezgin, I, 302 and there more references and details on 
manuscripts ofhis books that were preserved; see also Rotter, Well des Orients , 6(1970/1), 
38f. 

50 Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, XI, 5; al-Khatlb al-Baghdadi, Ta’rikh, XIII, 45f. 

51 Tabaranl, Mujam, I, 184. 

52 Tabaranl, Mujam, I, 155; Ibn ‘Asakir, VI, 365. 

53 Tabaranl, Mujam, II, 126. 


303 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


emigrated to Baghdad, and from there to Kufa and afterwards to Basra, 
and finally to Ascalon, where he remained until his death in Jumada II 
AH 220 (June AD 835), at the age of eighty-eight. He was occupied in 
collecting traditions, and was a scribe by profession (writing deeds and 
petitions). Bukhari, the greatest anthologist of hadiths, quoted him, as did 
Ibn Abfl-Hatim al-Razi. Two of his books are known; they are kitab 
al-hadfth, of which ten leaves of a thirteenth century manuscript have been 
preserved in Damascus, and thawab al-a‘mal (‘reward for pious deeds’), 
which has been lost. 54 Abu Ibrahim Rawh b. Yazld al-Sanajl (from Sana- 
jiya, or Sinajiya, a village near Ascalon) seems to have stayed in Ramla 
where he met Ibn Abl Hatim al-Razi in AH 217 (AD 832). His pupil, Abu 
Zayyan, Tayyib b. Zayyan al-Qasitl, who also came from Sanajiya is also 
mentioned. 55 Muhammad b. al-Mutawakkil b. Abl’l-Surri was a descend¬ 
ant of converts to Islam, mawla of the Hashimids (evidently of the house of 
‘Abbas). He was a scholar and also an astrologer, and he dealt in pearls. 
One night, on leaving the jdmi‘ in Ascalon, he looked up at the stars, and 
announced that he would die that very night. He then returned to his 
house seemingly healthy, wrote his will and bid his family farewell, and he 
died the same night (according to Ibn Hajar). His death was in Sha'ban AH 
238 (January AD 853). 56 Another inhabitant of Ascalon was Muhammad 
b. Hammad al-Razi al-Tabaranl (of Rayy near Tehran). He died on Friday 
the 21st of Rabl‘ II AH 271 (16 October AD 884). Some of the important 
scholars in Islam, such as Ibn Maja, copied from him. 57 

[443-452] Above, we have dealt with the notable group of Muslim 
theologians who descended from local converts to Islam in Eilat during 
the Umayyad period. In following the lives of the Muslim theologians in 
Palestine, it appears that there was a continuity in the existence of a 
spiritual centre in Eilat. Towards the end of the eighth century, it was the 
home of one of the most important writers of that time (apparently for a 
lengthy stay), Abu ‘Abd al-Rahman ‘Abdallah b. al-Mubarak b. Wadih 
al-Hanzall al-Tamlml, of Marw in Khurasan, also a descendant of con¬ 
verts. It was said that his father was a Turk and his mother came from 
Khawarizm. He was a successful merchant but also a writer and a fighter. 


54 Ibn Sa‘d, VII(2), 186; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, VI, 460; Ibn al-Athlr, Lubab, II, 136; Ibn 
al-jawzl, Sifa, IV, 280f; Ibn Qutayba, Ma'arif, 524; KhazrajI, 12; DhahabI, ‘Ibar, I, 379; 
Yafi‘1, II, 80 (in DhahabI and Yafi‘1 erroneously; he died in 120); Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, I, 196; 
SafadI, al-Wcifi, V, 297; al-Khatlb al-Baghdadl, Mitdih, I, 463ff; cf. Sezgin, I, 67, 102 (No. 
32). 

55 Yaqut, Buldati, III, 154; KhalidI, 152; Ibn al-Athlr, Lubab, I, 567. 

56 WasitI, 3, see editor’s note 2; Ibn al-Athlr, Lubab, II, 136; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, IX, 424f; 
SafadI, al-Wdji, IV, 384. 

37 AI-Khatib al-Baghdadl, Ta’rikh, II, 271f; Ibn al-Athlr, Lubab, II, 94f; KhazrajI, 284; SafadI, 
al-Wdft, III, 24; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, IX, 124f. 

304 



MUSLIM PERSONALITIES UNDER THE ABBASIDS [SECS. 423-454] 


He died in Hit (on the Euphrates, north ofal-Anbar, which is Neharde‘a), 
on Ramadan AH 181 (November AD 797). 58 

Additional Muslim figures in Eilat are mentioned: Abu Kharbaq Salama 
b. Rawh, from a family of converts to Islam, mawalt of the Umayyads. He 
was the nephew of‘Aqll b. Khalid and he copied the book of al-Zuhrl from 
him; he died in Sha‘ban AH 197 (April AD 813). 59 One of his relatives was 
Abu ‘Abdallah Muhammad b. ‘Aziz b. ‘Abdallah b. Ziyad b. Khalid b. 
‘Aqil b. Khalid, also of Eilat, where he died in AH 267 (AD 880/1). 60 
Mention must also be made of Ruzayq b. Hakam, one of the collectors of 
traditions in Eilat, of whom Ibn H a j ar sa Y s that he was also governor of the 
city in that time. Also the following personalities: Husayn b. Rustum; 61 
Abu Ya'qub Ishaq b. Isma‘11 b. ‘Abd al-A‘la b. ‘Abd al-Hamld; who died 
in Dhu’l-Hijja AH 208 (April AD 824). 62 Talha b. ‘Abd al-Malik, from 
whom, according to Ibn Hajar, some of the most important collectors of 
Muslim traditions copied; 63 Abu Dahr Yazid b. Abi Sumayd (or Su- 
mayya), who behaved in a very pious manner and prayed and wept 
frequently (Ibn Sa‘d has a story of a Jewish woman who empathised with 
his piety and wept with him). 64 Three men of Eilat are mentioned among 
the pupils and followers of al-Shafi‘i, one of the greatest Islamic scholars of 
those generations: Khalid b. Nizarb. al-Mughlrab. Salim, a descendant of 
mawalt of Ghassan, who moved to Samarra in Iraq, capital of the Abba- 
sids, towards the end of his life and died there in AH 222, that is AD 837. 65 
A pupil of Khalid, Harun b. Sa'id b. al-Haytham, also a descendant of a 
family of converts, from the mawalt of Qays, died on the 6th of Rabf I AH 
253, the 16th of March, AD 867. Harun b. Muhammad. 66 Abu ‘Amr ‘Abd 


58 His stay in Eilat is mentioned by Ibn Sa‘d, VI1(2), 206; cf. also 104f; see further Dhahabi, 
‘Ibar, 280f; Ibn Ijtajar, Tahdhib, V, 382-387; cf. Sezgin, I, 95, who has more references and 
also a list of manuscripts of his books that were preserved. His friend and assistant, ‘All b. 
Ishaq b. Yahya b. Mu'adh al-Darikani also stayed in Eilat with him; this ‘All was 
afterwards put in charge of supplies to the army injund Damascus andjund Urdunn on 
behalf of the caliph al-Wathiq; in AH 226, or AD 841, he rebelled against the governor of 
both thesejunds, Raja’ b. Abl’l-Dahhak and murdered him, see Tabari, Ta’rikh , III, 1313f; 
Ibn ‘Asakir, V, 316. On ‘AH being one of the assistants (perhaps a pupil) of‘Abdallah b. 
al-Mubarak see Ibn Sa‘d, VII(2), 107. Raja’ was evidently one of al-Ma’mun’s retainers, 
see Tabari, ibid., 994, 1000. 

59 Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, IV, 289f. 

60 Dhahabi, ‘Ibar, II, 36; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, IX, 344. 

61 Ibn Sa‘d, VII(2), 206; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, III, 273. (Husayn b. Rustum is mentioned only 
in Ibn Sa‘d.) 

62 Ibn Makula, I, 128ff; KhazrajI, 22; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, I, 225f. 

63 Ibn Sa‘d, VII(2), 206; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, V, 19f. 

64 Ibn Sa‘d, VII(2), 206; Ibn al-Jawzi, Sifa, IV, 305; KhazrajI, 371; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, XI, 
334. 

65 Sam‘ani, 410; according to him, he died in Sha'ban 263, April 876, evidently an error; see 
Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, III, 123. 

66 Ibn ‘Abd al-Barr, Intiqa, 114; Ibn Hajar, ibid. 


305 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATiMIDS 


al-Jabbar b, ‘Umar (known also by the nickname: Abul-Sabah), was also 
from a family of converts from Eilat, mawali of the Umayyads. He died in 
AH 260 or 270, that is ca. AD 880. 67 

[453-454] Abu Bakr Muhammad b. al-Harith b. al-Nu‘man al-Iyadi, 
served as cadi in Palestine; he hailed from Khurasan and acted as cadi at 
different times both in Fustat and Baghdad. He died in AH 250, that is 
AD 864. m Abu Sa‘id ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Ibrahim b. ‘Amr b. Maymun 
al-Qurashl was from a family of converts who were mawali of the Banu 
Quraysh, evidently of the caliph ‘Uthman and afterwards of the 
Umayyads. He was known also by the name Duhaym b. al-Yatim, and 
was cadi in two junds, Filastin and Urdunn, and lived in Ramla. He died in 
Ramla in AH 245, in Ramadan (December AD 859). It was said of him that 
he was a pupil of Ahmad ibn Idanbal. Musa b. ‘Abdallah b. Musa, who is 
Abu ‘Imran al-Qaratisi, a pupil of Adam b. Abi Iyas of Ascalon, was a 
Baghdadi and lived in Acre during the first half of the ninth century. 69 

The period of the Tulunids 

[455] During the last quarter of the ninth century, a political process of 
great importance to the history of Palestine took place - the seizure of 
power in Egypt by the Turkish commander Ahmad ibn Tulun, and its 
severance from the central rule in Baghdad. Not many years passed before 
Ibn Tulun also ruled over Palestine and Syria. From then onwards, Pal¬ 
estine became subordinate to Egypt. This fact has a two-fold significance. 
On the one hand, the central government came closer to Palestine and was 
more interested in what occurred there in every area. In the economic 
sphere, at least, this fact had definite consequences, such as an improve¬ 
ment in the ports and the development of trade relations, as we shall see 
below.- On the other hand, the creation of an independent political centre 
in Egypt led to a renewed polarisation of the forces in the Muslim world. 
During the generations which passed since the Muslim conquest, Palestine 
experienced wars of a mainly internal nature, that is, inter-tribal conflicts 
between Arab tribes or between various rebels or insurgents and the 
central government. Now the country became much as it had been in 
ancient times, the arena of war between armies from Egypt and armies 
from the north. These forces were not of a uniform character; not only the 
army of the Abbasid caliphate was involved but there were many other 

67 Ibn Sa‘d, VH(2), 207; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhtb, VI, 104. 

68 Kindi, 449; al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, Ta'rTkh , II, 2926 Al-Iyadi, after lyad b. Nizar, con¬ 
sidered the father of the ‘northern’ tribes, see Sam'ani, I, 2836 

69 Al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, Ta’rTkh, X. 265f; XIII, 42. KhazrajI, 189; EihahabI, Thar, I, 445; 

Ibn al-Tmad, II, 108; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhtb , VI, 1316 Adam b. Abi lyas: see p. 303 above. 


306 



THE PERIOD OF THE TULUNIDS [SECS. 455-461] 

factors taking part as well. The common element in all these wars was that 
Palestine appeared to be a vital defensive position to each of the sides as 
well as a springboard from which to attack. 70 

[456] Ahmad ibn Tulun was the son of a Turkish freedman of Caliph 
al-Ma’mun. Ahmad came to Egypt in September 868 as representative of 
his step-father, the amtr Baqbaq, appointed governor of the country on 
behalf of Caliph al-Mu‘tazz. It was not long before he was dominating 
Egyptian affairs. On his arrival in Egypt, he found that the person to be 
reckoned with there was Ahmad ibn al-Mudabbir, who was in charge of 
tax matters in Egypt and the three junds of Filastln, Urdunn and Da¬ 
mascus. Evidently, when he first occupied this post Ahmad ibn al-Mu- 
dabbir was only responsible for jund Filastln and treated the inhabitants of 
the country quite harshly. He stayed in Palestine from about 850 until 855. 
When Ibn Tulun arrived in Egypt, ‘Isa ibn Shaykh seized the dispatches of 
taxes to Baghdad. After a certain period of tension, Ibn Tulun and Ibn 
al-Mudabbir found a common language, and the son of the former, 
Khumarawayh, married the latter’s daughter. Ahmad ibn Tulun showed 
considerable resourcefulness in his dealing with taxes, which rose steeply 
as a result of his anxiety to improve the conditions of the farmers by giving 
them rights of tenure on their plots and by a policy of credit to improve the 
agricultural conditions. Apparently he pursued the same policy in Pal¬ 
estine and Syria after he took over these countries in 878, after the death of 
Amajur, governor of Damascus. The result was that whereas the income 
from land taxes in those areas governed by al-Mudabbir diminished to 
800,000 dinars, Ibn Tulun succeeded in raising them to 4,300,000. 71 

70 The Byzantines were also now more inclined to direct attacks into Palestine and the 
surrounding areas, not a little because the new centre which arose in Egypt displayed 
aggressive initiative also against the areas under Byzantine rule, and it gradually became a 
worthwhile target for the imperial army’s attacks, particularly at sea. Not all Byzantine 
campaigns and raids left traces in the records. Harun ibn Yahya immortalised in writing 
the sending of a cargo of Muslim captives from Ascalon to Antalia (which is Attalia) in 
Asia Minor; see in Ibn Rusta, 119; cf. Izeddin, REI , 1941-46, 41-62; the article Harun b. 
Yahya (by the aforementioned) in EP\ Miquel, Geographic humaine , 165, n. 65. (It is not 
known when this occurred exactly; some believe it happened in 880 and some in 912.) 

71 See a general survey on the beginning of Ahmad ibn Tulun’s rule in Lane-Poole, History , 
59ff; see 2. M. Hassan, Les Tulunides, and the article Ahmad b. Tulun (by the afore¬ 
mentioned), in EP ; see: Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, VII, 316f; Ibn Taghri Bardi, III, 43; Sawirus 
(1943), 24; Ibn Khaldun, l Ibar, IV, 639, 643; Ibn al-Jawzi, Muntazam , V, 59f; WCistenfeld, 
Statthalter , III, 12, 16; Canard’s translation of al-Suli, 221, n. 1 (cf. al-Suli, 138) wherein he 
notes that Ibn al-Mudabbir bore the title tistadh (though he was not a eunuch); B. Lewis, 
Cambridge History of Islam, I, 183; Goitein, Yerushalayim (1952/3), 93. Ibn Tulun’s first 
military expedition to Palestine took place at the end of Sha‘ban 264, May 878. Mu¬ 
hammad b. (Abi) Raff, governor on behalf of Amajur, received him in Ramla. From 
there, Ibn Tiilun continued his expedition northward, to Syria. See: Kindi. 219f. Evi¬ 
dently Ibn Tulun’s complete control of tax matters in Palestine (and implicitly all its 
administrative matters) only began after 267, that is 880, the year in which Ibn al- 
Mudabbir was imprisoned (see Ibn al-Jawzi). It is interesting to note that although these 


307 



PALESTINE PROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FAT1MIDS 

[457-459] During this period, Ramla became the administrative centre 
of Ibn Tulun’s governing policies in Palestine and Syria. There he met the 
son of Amajur, who agreed to accept his authority and was appointed 
governor in Ramla, evidently after the former governor, Muhammad b. 
Abl Raff, as well as his aide Ahmad, were dismissed. 72 

If we can believe the letter of the patriarch ofjerusalem, Elias the Third, 
Ibn Tulun appointed a Christian governor in Ramla, or perhaps only in 
Jerusalem, and this put an end to the persecution of the Christians and 
prompted the renovation of the churches in Jerusalem, on the initiative of 
that same Christian governor. 73 1 have already described the renovation of 
the port of Acre ordered by Ibn Tulun. It is said that he also built the citadel 
(qat'a) ofjaffa. 74 

[460] Ahmad ibn Tulun died in May 884 and was replaced by his son, 
Abu’l-Jaysh Khumarawayh. He soon found himself in the midst of a war 
with Turkish commanders who collaborated with Abu’l-‘Abbas ibn al- 
Muwaffaq, the nephew of Caliph al-Mu‘tamid (Ibn al-Muwaffaq after¬ 
wards inherited the caliphate and he became Caliph al-Mu‘tadid). This 
struggle went on in Syria, at first, and in February 885 Ibn al-Muwaffaq 
entered Damascus. Some two months later, on Tuesday the 15th of 
Shawwal (the 5th of April AD 885), the armies met at al-Tawahln (‘the 
mills’), the place on the Yarqon known in later times as the ‘Seven Mills’. 
According to a few of the sources, the forces were uneven; Khumarawayh 
had at his disposal an army of 70,000 men whereas Ibn al-Muwaffaq had 
only some 4,000. Nevertheless he had the upper hand. Khumarawayh 
believed that the battle was lost and he fled with part of his army to Egypt. 
Part of the Egyptian army, however, under the command of Sa‘d (or 
Sa‘Id) al-A‘sar (or al-Aysar, or Abu’l-Ma‘ashir), attacked the Abbasid 
army from an ambush and repelled it, causing heavy losses, including the 
loss of many of the commanders. Ibn al-Muwaffaq was forced to with¬ 
draw from all the areas he had conquered. The people of Damascus refused 
to permit him to enter the city owing to the unquestioned victory of the 
Tulunids. The cadi of Damascus, Abu Zur‘a Muhammad b. ‘Uthman, 

were unquiet times, the rnonk Bernard, on visiting Palestine in at. 868, was impressed 
with the high degree of security in the streets of its cities: a man whose horse happened to 
stumble and die, could confidently leave all his trappings in the street until he found 
another; differing considerably from the insecurity he found in Italy. See his account in 
Tobler et Molinier, 1, 319f. 

72 See Ibn al-Athir, Kamil , VII, 316; Ibn Khaldun, ‘ Ibar , IV, 643, 668. 

73 See the letter in RHGF , IX, 294f. Ibn Tulun's favourable attitude to the dhimmjs can 
perhaps be seen from the fact that he had a Jewish physician, see Mas'udI, Muriij, II, 391, 
and see there the summary of the argument between the Christian (the Copt) and the 
Jewish physician. When Ibn Tulun became fatally ill, both the Jews and the Christians 
prayed for him: see Lane-Poole, History, 1, 79. 

74 Ibn Khaldun, ‘Ibar, IV, 652. 


308 



THE PERIOD OF THE TULUNIDS [SECS. 455-461] 

participated in Damascus in the deposal ceremony of al-Muwaffaq 
(brother of caliph al-Mu‘tamid, who was considered governor of the 
region), and said *. . . behold you are witnesses to the fact that I have 
dismissed Abu Ahmad (al-Muwaffaq) as one discards a sealing ring from 
one’s finger; accursed may he be’. Later, when the Abbasid army passed 
through Damascus in the course of its retreat, Abu Zur‘a was captured 
with a number of other people. They were about to be executed, but Abu 
Zur‘a, with his quick wits, managed to convince Ibn al-Muwaffaq’s 
secretary ( katib ), al-Wasiti, to release them. The Abbasids had finally to 
acknowledge the Tulunids’ conquests and the agreement between the two 
sides was strengthened by the marriage of Khumarawayh’s daughter, 
Qatr al-Nada’, to the new caliph, who was Ibn al-Muwaffaq, al- 
Mu’tadid. 75 

[461] Of the events which occurred during that period, mention must be 
made of Khumarawayh’s visit to Ramla in AH 275 (AD 888/9), apparently 
at its outset (June 888), when he organised a large military expedition into 
Syria to fight the Turkish commander Ibn Abl Saj, who had invaded the 
area. The battle took place in the Bashan region and ended with an 
overwhelming victory for the Egyptians. When in Ramla, Khumarawayh 
invited Sa‘d al-A‘sar, the victor of the battle of al-Tawahln who later 

75 See general information on Khumarawayh in the article on him (by U. Haarmann) in EP\ 
where the date of the battle of al-Tawahin is not exact. See Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, 2106f; 
Mas'udI, Muruj, VIII, 64f; Isbahanl, Maqatil , 686 (who points out that in that battle, 
‘Ubaydallah b. ‘All, a descendant of‘Allibn AbTTalib, fell); Ibnal-Athlr, Kamil, VII, 410; 
Sibt Ibn al-jawzl (BM Or 4619 II), fol. 20b; al-'uyun wa't-hada’iq (MS Berlin), fob 30a; Ibn 
aI-‘AdIm, Zubda, I, 81 (here the year is mistakenly: 281); Ibn Shaddad (MS Leiden), fob 
105a (Muhammad b. [Abl] Raff, who was governor of Damascus, does not accept 
Khumarawayh’s authority and invites Ibn al-Muwaffaq to enter Damascus; at the head of 
Khumarawayh’s army stood Muhammad b. Ahmad al-Wasiti and Sa‘d b. al-Aysar 
[above-mentioned al-A‘sar[); Abu’l-Fida’, Mukhtasar, II, 54; DhahabI, ‘Ibar, II, 47; Ibn 
Kathlr, Biddya, XI, 49 (according to him, the name of the victorious Tulunid commander 
was Abu’l-Ma'ashir, and he was Khumarawayh’s brother); Ibn Khaldun, 'Ibar, 653f, 697; 
Subkl, Tabaqat, III, 196 (he has the story of Abu Zur‘a but the names are distorted); YafiT, 
II, 186; Maqrlzl, Khital, II, 104 (who follows al-QudaTs account and gives the date of the 
battle of al-Tawahln as the 10th of Safar AH 271, i.e. the 7th of August AD 884); Ibn 
TaghriBardI, III, 50, has thesamedateas Maqrizi;cf. Wustenfeld, Statthalter, III, 27fwho 
claims that the date cannot be so early; cf. also Lane-Poole, History, 72ff (who evades the 
issue of the date). On the matter of Abu Zur'a (below, sec. 489) see also $afadl, at-Waft, IV, 
82f: he was arrested together with ‘Abdallah ibn ‘Amrand Yazldibn Muhammad ibn 'Abd 
al-§amad. The three were taken to Antioch in chains; there they were interrogated by Ibn 
al-Muwaffaq, who wanted to know who called his father Abu’l-Ahmaq (instead of Abu 
Ahmad: ahmaq meaning stupid). Abu Zur'a swore that if one of them used this expression, 
he would divorce his own wives, free his slaves and donate his property to the waqf, upon 
which he was released. Some nine years after the battle of al-Tawaljm, Ahmad ibn 
al-Muwaffaq, who in the meantime had become caliph, al-Mu‘tadid, and Khumarawayh, 
reached complete agreement. Khumarawayh was given control of all the areas between 
Barqa in the west and the Euphrates and had to pay the caliph an annual tax of 500,000 
dinars. See Kindi, 239f. 


309 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


became governor of Damascus (and according to one version, he was 
Khumarawayh’s brother) and killed him with his own hands, which 
aroused the wrath of the people of Damascus. 76 

The Ismallis: Qarmatis and Fatimids 

[462] During the last quarter of the ninth century, an extremist Shiite 
movement, known as Ismallis, crystallised. Its name derived from the 
elder son of the sixth imam, Ja‘far al-Sadiq. (In Shiite terms, the imam was 
the direct descendant of ‘All ibn Abl Talib and Fatima, the Prophet’s 
daughter; the imam was considered the worthy and true leader of the Islam 
world in his time but had been dispossessed by those who usurped the 
rights of the Prophet’s family, that is, the dynasties of the caliphs.) This 
Ismail died before his father, whom he was to have succeeded. The 
Ismallis claimed that Isma‘11 was the last imam, ‘lord of the time’ ( qa’itn 
al-zamdn). They developed quite a unique religious philosophy influenced 
by Hellenistic and Neo-Platonic ideas which happened to find their way 
into the Islamic train ofthroughts. They aspired to build a new world and 
a new Muslim society. Their secret societies sprung up throughout the 
Muslim world and their emissaries were very busy spreading their teach¬ 
ings. An earlier branch of the Ismail! movement were the Qarmatis. 
According to Muslim sources, in fact, they completely rejected Islam and 
represented Persian aspirations in opposition to the Arabs, saying that 
God no longer supported the Arabs because they had killed Husayn. Now 
He was on the side of the descendants of Khusraw, king of the Persians. 77 

[463] This large stream among the Ismallis, the Qarmatis, became a 
political movement fighting for control of the caliphate in ca, 890, when 
Hamdan Qarmat gathered his devotees together at a base in the Kufa 
region, which he called Dar al-hijra, that is ‘the house (region, land) of the 
hijra’, as a reminder of the hijra of Muhammad to Medina, which was the 
beginning of the Prophet’s armed struggle. He had the support of the 
farmers of the area and also of the Bedouin tribes. The Qarmatis intro¬ 
duced common ownership of the herds, of various property and jewelry, 
and they also had a common fund into which the individual earnings of the 
members were placed. In 899 the pupil of Hamdan Qarmat, Abu Said 

76 Ibn ai-Athir, Kamil, VII, 428f; apparently Ibn al-Athlr speaks of the battle twice, and the 
second time he says that it took place in Thinyat al-‘Uqqab near Damascus. On the killing 
of Sa‘d see: Ibn Taghrf BardI, III, 72f. 

77 Goldziher, Muhammedanische Studien, I, 175. The first preachers and organisers of the 
IsmaTHs were Maymun al-Qaddah (‘the arrow maker’) and his son ‘Abdallah. They came 
from the region of Ahwaz. Some sources say that ‘Abdallah lived in Jerusalem for a time 
and began his propaganda from there. See on ‘Abdallah: Lewis, Origins, 54-69; and the 
article ‘Abd Allah b. Maymun (by S. M. Stern) in EP\ and see there also the article 
IsmaTliyya (by W. Madelung). 


310 



THE ISMATLIS: QARMATIS AND FATIMIDS [SECS. 462-466] 

al-Jannabl, set up a sort of Qarmatx state in Bahrayn, from which he also 
dominated the neighbouring regions in the Arabian peninsula. There were 
other Qarmati centres in Iraq, in Ahwaz and Basra, and in Salamiyya in 
Syria. In about 900, the Syrian part of the sect came under the leadership of 
an opponent of Hamdan Qarmat (and of his brother-in-law ‘Abdan), 
Zikrawayh b. Mihrawayh and his two sons, al-Husayn (or al-Hasan) and 
Yahya. Until 903, they established their rule over all of northern Syria. 
Below we shall see that the Qarrnatis were involved in a very substantive 
way in the events in Palestine. Among the principles of their religion, the 
sources mention that in their prayer they faced Jerusalem and not Mecca 
(their qibla was Jerusalem). 78 

[464] Another stream which developed from the Isma'ills were the 
Fatimids (named after Fatima, the daughter of the Prophet). In 893, one of 
their secret emissaries, Abu ‘Abdallah, reached North Africa in the com¬ 
pany of some pilgrims whom he had met in Mecca before that. He soon 
found supporters among the Kitama tribesmen, and succeeded in rousing 
them and other Berber tribes as well, to fight for the mahdT, the descendant 
of‘All and Fatima. The region which is today Tunisia was then governed 
by semi-independent rulers, the Aghlabids; while in the region of 
Morocco, another dynasty, the Idrisids, were in control. Abu ‘Abdallah 
succeeded in collecting an army of200,000 tribesmen, defeated the Aghla- 
bid ruler in 908 and proclaimed as caliph the imam ‘Ubaydallah, who, he 
claimed, was a seventh generation descendant ofja'far al-Sadiq and there¬ 
fore a legitimate imam. Sixty years later, in 969, the Fatimids conquered 
Egypt, and a year later, Palestine as well. 79 

78 See the article Karmatl (by W. Madeiung) in EP: on the qibla see: Tabari, Ta'rlkh, III, 2128 
(and also in others mentioned below). Another interesting principle of theirs: they honour 
Monday and not Friday; Malatl, 20f: the Qarrnatis and the Daylamls (the Daylamls were a 
Persian tribe and it is interesting that he brackets them together) claim that God is the 
supreme light without any mixture of darkness; they belittle the practical precepts, which 
in their opinion are merely traditions and not the sayings of God, for He does not need his 
creatures to thank him; some of them believe in tandsukh (the transmigration of souls, and 
this evidently applies principally to the soul of the imam migrating into that of another 
person); they deny the existence of Paradise and Hell; they see in their fellow-men 
mushrikun (idol-worshippers) and are permitted to spill their blood and take their pos¬ 
sessions; they share the women and the children and have no limitations on family life; 
Abu’l-Fida’, Mukhtasar, II, 55: they see in Jesus, who is the word of God, the messenger of 
God. and the same applies also to Muhammad b. al-Hanafiyya (see above); they fast on the 
Persian holidays: the mihrjan and the tiayrdz; Ibn Khaldun, ‘Ibar, III, 705; Maqrizi, Itti'az , I, 
155. 

79 See: Vatikiotis, 1C, 28 (1954), 491; he lists four factors which made the Maghrib an ideal 
scene of action for the Fatimids: (a) the distance from the Abbasid centre which enabled 
their predecessors, the Aghlabids, to set up de facto independent rule, (b) the isolationist 
tendencies of the Berber tribes, (c) the puritanical, conservative character of the population 
who were at the same time cut off from Islamic thinking, and (d) the existence of many 
religious sects there, prior to the arrival of the Fatimid emissaries. See the article Fatimids, 
by M. Canard, in EP. It is worth noting that the deposed ruler of the Maghrib, Abu Nasr 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


[465] One should point out that during those generations, Shiite tend¬ 
encies were very strong in Palestine. Ibn al-Faqih wrote in ca. 900, that the 
people of Tiberias, Nabulus and Jerusalem, as well as the majority of the 
people in ‘Amman (referring to the Muslims, that is the tribes) were 
Shiites. ‘Abd al-Jabbar, writing in 995, also explicitly noted the consider¬ 
able influence of the Shiites in many places, including Ramla, Tyre, Acre 
and Ascalon. 80 

[466] The congenial atmosphere for Shiism was the background to the 
stay of the Fatimid mahdi, ‘Ubaydallah, in Palestine. After he managed to 
escape from Salamiyya in Syria, he at first went to Tiberias, where a 
Fatimid missionary ( da‘i) lived. He welcomed him and his entourage and 
warned them not to go into the city lest they be recognised by the 
authorities. They continued on to Ramla, where the governor was a 
follower of the Fatimids, one of‘Ubaydallah’s devotees. He looked after 
them and supplied them with all their needs for two years. When a letter 
arrived from the governor of Damascus probing into the matter of the 
mahdi and requesting that if he were seen, he should be caught, the 
governor of Ramla replied that no one of that description had arrived in 
Ramla. The latter also swore allegiance to the mahdi, who lived in his 
house. 81 


The invasion of Tiberias by the Qarmatis and the return of the Abbasids 

[467] These were the last days of Tulunid rule in Egypt. In about 900, 

their control of Palestine and Syria disintegrated owing to the rise of the 

Ziyadat Allah b. ‘Abdallah, found refuge in Ramla, and spent the end of his life in 
Jerusalem; see: Abu’l-Fida’, Mukhtasar, II, 63; DhahabI, ‘/bar, II, 127; Sibt Ibn al-jawzl 
(BM Or 4619), 64a: some say he died bhjd (perhaps: in Haifa; but in DhahabI, in Raqqa), 
but evidently Ramla would be correct. The enemies of the Fatimids accused them of 
having falsified their genealogy and that they were not at all the descendants of ‘All and 
Fatima, and even attributed to them Jewish ancestry. See the summary of these polemics in 
the (biased) book of an IsmaTH of modern times: P. H. Mainour, Polemics on the Origin of 
the Fatimid Caliphs, London 1934. 

80 Ibn al-Faqrh, 179. ‘Abd al-Jabbar, Tathbit, II, 594f. It is possible that the profusion of Shiite 
influences in Palestine derived from the fact that the rulers used to remove people with 
Shiite inclinations from the important centres of the caliphate to distant and less important 
places; see for instance the case of Aljmad b. Shu'ayb b. ‘All al-Nasa’I, a celebrated writer, 
one of the scholars of law in Damascus, who showed sympathy for ‘All, and was therefore 
expelled from his city and moved to Ramla. See: Subkl, Tabaqat, III, 14ff. 

81 See: Ivanow, Ismaili Tradition, 79, 87, 165, 167, 172, 181, 191f, 194, n. 1: on a night in 
Rajab AH 289, that is June-July AD 902, the mahdi, his son al-Qa’im and many others, 
went up to the roof of the governor’s house in Ramla to watch for falling stars, which it is 
said were plentiful on that night. It is not possible to establish the exact date on the basis of 
this natural phenomenon, which was typical of that time of the year, particularly July, and 
especially from the 15 th to the 25 th of the month, as emerges from the letter kindly sent me 
by Professor U. Dali’ Olmo of the Observatory of the University of Bologna on this 
matter. In his opinion, these were the Perseids; he also pointed out to me parallels from 


312 



INVASION OF TIBERIAS [SECS. 467-472] 


Qarmatls and their raids, under the command of their leader, ‘All b. 
‘Abdallah. Tiberias at the time was controlled by Abu’l-Tayyib Lahha 
Muhammad b. Hamza b. ‘Abdallah b. al-‘Abbas (Ibn al-Kilabiyya) b. ‘All 
Ibn Abl Talib - that is, a descendant of‘All but not of Fatima, who was of 
one mind with the Qarmatls. He amassed a great deal of money and took 
over estates in jund Urdunn but was finally caught by Tughj (the father of 
the Ikhshldid dynasty, who was then governor of Damascus and Palestine 
on behalf of Harun b. Khumarawayh, the Tulunid) who had him ex¬ 
ecuted. The Tulunid Harun b. Khumarawayh then set out on a campaign 
against the Qarmatls and succeeded in recapturing the two junds (Filastin 
and Urdunn). He appointed his client Sawartakln to govern over them but 
then the caliph al-Muktafi sent an army to al-Sham, under Muhammad b. 
Sulayman al-Wathiql. He took Damascus and the two junds from Sawar- 
takln and appointed Ahmad b. Kayghalagh as governor of the entire area, 
who in turn appointed as his deputy in Urdunn and Filastin, Yusuf b. 
Ibrahim b. Bughamardl. 82 

[468] In AH 293, which is AD 906, the Qarmatls again raided Palestine. 
At their head stood Zikrawayh b. Mihrawayh’s envoy, Abu Ghanim Nasr 
(‘Abdallah) b. Sa‘Id. They captured Tiberias, which was a major army 
base at the time, and killed its amir, Ja‘far b. Na‘im. The people of Tiberias 
offered resistance to the Qarmatls and as a result, the city was plundered, 
many women taken captive and many people killed. Arabs from among 
the ‘southerners’ (of the Banu Kalb) participated in this campaign. The 
governor of Damascus and Urdunn at that time was Ahmad ibn Kaygha¬ 
lagh and he sent an army against the Qarmatls under the command of 
Yusuf b. Ibrahim b. Bughamardl, who was defeated and eventually killed 
by the Qarmatls, although they had promised him an aman. When another 
army was sent against them, under al-Husayn b. Hamdan b. Hamdun, the 
Qarmatls retreated from Palestinian territory to the Euphrates and raided 
the city of Hit, on 20 Sha'ban AH 293 (16 June AD 906). The conquest of 
Tiberias by the Qarmatls therefore must have occurred in about April or 
May of the same year. 83 

[469] In the meantime, the Tulunid dynasty in Egypt began to decline. 

Romoaldi annales, MGH (SS), 19, 938, and from a Japanese source, Keimatsu Mitsuo, A 
Chronology of Aurorae and Sunspots Observed in China, Korea and Japan, in: Ann. Sci. 
Kanazawa Univ., part. 5: AD 801—1000. Vol. 11(1974), 18; and from the catalogue: 
Susumu Imoto and Ichiro Hasegowa, Smithsonian Contributions to Astrophysics, II, No. 6 
(Washington DC 1958). I am also grateful to Dr A. Segalovitch, of the Dept, of Physics 
and Astronomy of Tel Aviv University, for his help in this matter. 

82 Abu’l-Tayyib: Ibn Hazm, Jamhara, 67. On the other wars of the Qarmatis, see: Tabari, 
Ta’rikh, III, 2217ff; 2221, 2222, 2224ff; Ibn Shaddad (MS Leiden), 105a. 

83 According to Sa‘Id ibn Bitriq, II, 75, a fierce battle took place between the Qarmatis and 
the Tulunid army in Rajab of the year AH 289 (June AD 902), near Damascus. Isma‘Il, the 
leader of the Qarmatis, was killed in that battle and the army returned to its camps in 


3U 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


Harun b. Khumarawayh was killed by his uncle Shayban at the end of 
December, 904; and some say it was the work of one of his soldiers. 
Shayban attempted to take control of the reins of power but he was soon 
removed by the army and was subsequently killed. Then power in Egypt 
was seized by the aforementioned Muhammad b. Sulayman al-Wathiqi, 
who was formerly commander of the Tulunid army but betrayed the 
Tulunids and became a devotee of the Abbasid caliph, al-Muktafi. He led 
an expedition through Palestine into Egypt and succeedeed in taking it 
over. Thus, in the year 905, Egypt and also Palestine returned to Baghdadi 
rule. In the same year, one of the army commanders by the name of 
Muhammad b. ‘All al-Khalanji (or al-Khalljl), rebelled against Mu¬ 
hammad b. Sulayman al-Wathiqi. (Some sources have instead of Mu¬ 
hammad b. ‘All al-Khalanji, Ibrahim al-Khalanji, and he is possibly the 
person mentioned earlier in connection with events in Hebron.) Al- 
Khalanji was young and energetic and a sworn enemy of the Abbasids. He 
wanted (at any rate, so he declared) to reinstate the Tulunids to power. At 
first, he reached Ramla in Sha'ban 292, or June 905, and encamped with his 
troops near the ‘Gate of Olives’ (bab al-zaytun). He easily overcame the 
governor of Ramla, Wasif b. Sawartakin, and his aide, Muhammad b. 
Yazdad, and when he had seized the city, he ordered the people to pray in 
its mosques for the well-being of the Tulunid Ibrahim b. Khumarawayh 
and for himself too. The commander of Fustat, ‘Isa al-Nushri, could not 
withstand the strong forces concentrated round al-Khalanji, and with¬ 
drew to Alexandria. The rebels then conquered Fustat. The caliph organ¬ 
ised a large expeditionary force. In the interim, in Safar AH 293 
(December AD 905), al-Khalanji defeated Ahmad b. Kayghalagh, gover¬ 
nor of al-Sham on behalf of the Abbasids, in the region of al-‘Arish. But in 
May 906, al-Khalanji suffered a defeat at the hands of the Abbasid ex¬ 
peditionary force and fled to Fustat, but was eventually caught and 
brought to Baghdad, where he was imprisoned on the caliph’s orders. 84 

Damascus and Tiberias. See on the conquest of Tiberias in 906: Mas'udi, Tanbih, 373; 
Tabari, Ta’rlklt, III, 2255-2258; information on the expedition reached Baghdad in Rabl‘ I 
AH 293, i. e. January AD 906; injumada I, that is March, the Qarmatis attacked Damascus 
and the inhabitants defended themselves. It seems that Damascus was not conquered then 
and the Qarmatis turned to the Hawran and the Bashan, and from there continued to 
Tiberias; ‘Arib, 9; al-'uyiin wa’l-hada’iq, IV, 117 (there the year is AH 290, that is, AD 903; 
cf. the same chronicle in MS Berlin, fol. 54, where the year is AH 291/AD 904); Thabit ibn 
Sinan, 26f (there the year is AH 193, an error which the editor should have noticed); Ibn 
al-Athir, Kamil, VII, 541f; he adds that Ibn Kayghalagh, the governor, was in Egypt at the 
time, engaged in a war against al-Khalanji (see on this further); Ibn Kathir, Biddy a, XI, 100; 
Ibn Shaddad (MS Leiden), fol. 105b; Ibn al-Jawzi, Muntazam, VII, 19; Ibn al-Dawadari, 
80. The leader of the Qarmatis, Zikra wayh, died a short time after these events, after being 
wounded and taken captive near Qadisiyya, on the 10th of January 907, see Canard, 
translation of al-Suli, 124, translator’s note 7, where his sources are mentioned. 

84 Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, VII, 535f; Lane-Poole, History, 67; Tabari, Ta'rikh, III, 2253, 2254f, 


3H 



INVASION OF TIBERIAS [SECS. 467-472] 


[470] From this point onward and for the following thirty years 
(906-935) Palestine remained under Abbasid rule. We have very little 
information as to what occurred there during that generation. Three 
inscriptions found on the Temple Mount belong to that period. One is on 
a house named al-turba (probably intended as ‘the grave’ but this word has 
other meanings as well), which was dedicated by a woman whose name 
has not been preserved, a client ( mawlah) of al-Muktafi, for some un¬ 
known purpose, though perhaps as waqf(muhabbasa). One can assume that 
the inscription dates from between 906 to 908, that is, between the return 
of the Abbasids to power and the death of Caliph al-Muktafi. The two 
other inscriptions also record the dedication of a building, this time on 
behalf of Caliph al-Muqtadir’s mother, in the year AH 301 (AD 913/4). Of 
the governors appointed by the Abbasid caliphs, apart from Ahmad ibn 
Kayghalagh mentioned earlier, we know of Abu’l-Hawa’ Nasim b. ‘Ab¬ 
dallah al-Sharabl, who was governor ofjemsalem, evidently at the end of 
al-Muqtadir’s day (that is, ca. 930), and ofal-Qahir. The latter came from a 
family of converts to Islam, mawalT of al-Muqtadir. According to al-SulI, 
he was replaced by Muflih the Black, a black eunuch who was one of the 
chief aides of Caliph al-Muqtadir. He was appointed governor ofjerusa- 
lem and arrived there in July 935 to stand in for Nasim. According to 
al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, Nasim only lived in Jerusalem and was a sort 
of supervisor of the proper procedures at the al-Aqsa mosque; ‘Umar 
b. Ahmad ibn Muhammad al-Wasiti (which should be: Muhammad b. 
Ahmad) was one of his pupils, and studied with him in AH 367, that is, 
AD 977/8. One should rely on al-Suli, apparently, as he was closer to the 
times in which these people lived, but perhaps there is no contradiction 
here, as Nasim could have returned to Jerusalem in his old age. 85 

2267f (printed: al-Khalijl); Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, VII, 536, 540f; Ibn Taghrl Bardi, under the 
year 292, and especially: III, 147f; MaqrizJ, Khitat, II, 112f (printed: Ibn al-Khalijl); cf. 
Wiistenfeld, Statthalter IV, 6. On the campaign of Muhammad b. Sulayman al-Wathiql 
see: Sa'Id ibn Bitriq, II, 76. 

85 See Repertoire chronologiqtte , III, nos. 840, 961, 962. See the discussion on the inscriptions 
immortalising the works of al-Muqtadir’s mother in Kessler, JRAS, 1964, 88-93; see 
details on her there: she had been a slave-girl belonging to al-Mu‘tadid, of Byzantine 
origin, and her name was Shaghab; after her son became caliph (al-Muqtadir), she was 
called, in the accepted manner, al-sayyida (the lady). The work that was done on the Dome 
of the Rock on her orders was supervised by her client, a certain Rablb. Nasim and Muflih: 
al-Suli, 67; see Canard’s translation, 118, nn. 2, 5; Hilal al-Sabi, 141: Abu'l-Hawa’ Nasim 
was one of the most important and respected of al-Muqtadir’s aides; both Nasim and 
Muflih were regular retainers of al-Muqtadir, see ibid. , 336; al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, XIII, 
437f. On ‘Umar b. Ahmad ibn Muhammad al-Wasiti, al-Khatib al-Baghdadi (VII, 325), 
says he was a preacher in the al-Aqsa mosque; the connection between him and Mu¬ 
hammad b. Ahmad al-Wasiti (supra), who occupied the same post at the beginning of the 
century, is not clear. If there is no mistake in al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, they were perhaps 
different people. From the account of Ibn Shaddad, fol. 105b, it seems that Abbasid rule in 
Palestine and Syria was only re-established in AH 301 (AD 913/4), when al-Muqtadir 


315 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


[471-472] One should note that this was the period in which Saadia b. 
Joseph al-Fayyurm, who later became Gaon of Sura, passed through 
Palestine on his way from Egypt to Iraq. He stayed in Tiberias until the 
dispute over the calendar, which I shall discuss below. It is difficult to 
discern any definite connection between the political events I have de¬ 
scribed and his moving from Egypt to Babylonia, although there have 
been attempts to do so. 86 

In AH 306 or 307 (that is, AD 918 or 919) the caliphate armies passed 
through Palestine, under the command of Mu’nis, al-Muqtadir’s aide, on 
their way to assist Egypt, which was being attacked by the Fatimids from 
the Maghrib, and who had already managed to capture al-Jiza. The 
advance post of the caliphate’s forces was then in Ascalon and it seems that 
it was from there that they sailed to Egypt. 87 


The Ikhshidids 

[473-474] The thirty years of renewed Abbasid rule in Egypt was in fact 
under the helm of the Madhara’l family, who were called after the place 
they hailed from, which was a town near Basra in Iraq. The members of 
this family held the treasury of the state in their hands and this was the 
source of their power, until the IkhshTd, Muhammad ibn Tughj, seized 
power in Egypt. He came from a family of nobles from Farghana in 
Central Asia, and Ikhshid was the ancient royal title employed in that area. 
His grandfather Juff was brought to Baghdad by Caliph al-Mu‘tasim, 
while his father, Tughj, was one of the commanders in Khumarawayh b. 
Ahmad b. Tulun’s army. At first, Khumarawayh appointed Tughj gover¬ 
nor of Damascus, but he dismissed him afterwards. He was arrested and 
died in jail in Damascus. But according to Ibn Sa‘id, he was only deposed 
when the Abbasids regained their power in Egypt, and then he was 
imprisoned together with his sons Muhammad and ‘Abdallah, and he 
remained in jail until his death in AH 294, that is AD 906/7. Tughj’s son 
Muhammad succeeded in returning to official posts. He became one of the 

appointed his son Abu’l-‘Abbas, at the age of four, governor of al-Sham, and Musa 
al-Muzaffar ruled on his behalf, but this is evidently a distortion, for in Ibn al-Athir, 
Kamil, VIII, 76, 85, and in Ibn Taghrl BardI, III, 182, the name of Mu’nis (and not Musa) is 
brought up in the events of the year AH 301 as commander of the Abbasid army, and there 
is no mention of al-Sham, but of Egypt and the Maghrib; cf. Lane-Poole, History, 81. 

86 See Maker, 54. Of special significance is the fact that Saadia stayed in Tiberias quite close 
to the period of the Qarmati wars and their conquest of Tiberias described above; it seems 
that the Jewish population of Tiberias, with its scholars, preserved in the main, its status 
and strength, despite the war. 

87 Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, VIII, 113f (the year AH 306); al-'uyun wa’i-hada’iq, IV, 203 (the year 
AH 307; printed al-jazira instead of al-jiza). 


316 



THE IKHSHiDIDS [SECS. 473-488] 

assistants to the governor of Egypt, Takfn, and on his behalf fulfilled the 
role of governor (within the framework of the Abbasid administration) in 
‘Amman firstly, and then in the whole of Trans-Jordan, until approxi¬ 
mately AH 325 (AD 927). Subsequently he quarrelled with his patron and 
managed to get an appointment as governor of jund Filastm. He then 
stayed in Ramla from AH 316, that is AD 928, and in Jumada II AH 319, 
that is July AD 931, he became governor of Damascus. Al-RashidI, who 
was formerly governor of Damascus, came to Ramla in his stead. 88 When 
the Ikhshld became ruler of Egypt, he took as his major aide, Abu Shuja* 
Fatik ‘the great’, also known by the nickname ‘the mad’ ( al-majniin ). He 
had been taken captive as a child in a Byzantine land together with his 
brother and sister and was educated in Ramla, where he was taught the 
craft of script-writing and became a katib, that is a scribe in an office. The 
Ikhshld took him on for his own use, without paying his price to his 
owners (for he had the status of a slave). Fatik was employed in many 
capacities in the Ikhshldid administration and was later on one of the 
retainers of Kafur. 89 

[475] An affair connected with Palestinian matters is that of the relation¬ 
ship of the Ikhshld with Abu’l-Fath Fadl b. Ja‘far b. Muhammad ibn 
al-Furat. He was the nephew of the Abbasid wazlr ‘All b. Muhammad ibn 
al-Furat, who was executed in Baghdad in AH 312, that is AD 924. Fadl 
himself acted as wazir during the last days ofal-Muqtadir, from 29 Rabl‘ II 
AH 320, that is 7 May AD 932, and continued to serve his successor 
al-Qahir for some time, until he was arrested. During al-Radl’s rule, he 
was released by the wazlr ibn Muqla, and appointed governor over a wide 
area, from the Jazlra, which is northern Iraq, to Egypt. His title was 
mukshif or wazir al-kashf. After the Ikhshld’s daughter married Fadl’s son 
(Ja‘far, who is Ibn Hinzaba), the relationship was strengthened, and it was 
Fadl who recommended that the Ikhshld become governor of Egypt in 
935, and he helped him dominate the country and dismiss Muhammad b. 
‘All al-Madhara’T from his post.The latter’s possessions were confiscated, 
but the Ikhshld treated him mercifully and placed him in Fadl b. Ja‘far’s 
hands, who took him to Ramla, where al-Madhara’i lived out the last 
years of his life in Fadl’s house. In AH 326, that is AD 938, Fadl was again 
called to Baghdad to take on the role of wazlr, but he died before he could 
set out on the way, on 8 Jumada I AH 327, that is 4 March, AD 939, and 


88 ‘Arlb, 159; cf. Lane Poole, History , 81f; Abu’l-Fida’, Mukhtasar, II, 82; Ibn SaTd, Mughrib, 
6; Ibn Khallikan, V, 58; Kindi, 269 (on the Madhara’is); 285ff(on the rivalry between Abu 
Bakr Muhammad b. ‘All al-Madhara’I and Ibn Tughj); cf. Bacharach, Speculum, 50(1975), 
589f. 

89 Ibn Khallikan, IV, 21 f, who also knows something of the strong links between Fatik and 
the famous poet al-Mutanabbi, who dedicated poems to him as well as composing a dirge 


317 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


was buried in Ramla. Then the Ikhshld made peace with al-Madhara’i, 
who was even appointed wazir in Egypt and became the central political 
figure there, particularly later on, during Kafur’s rule. 90 

[476] Once again, as in the days of the Tulunids, Palestine under the 
Ikhshidids became the battlefield for foreign armies. Ibn Ra’iq, who in 936 
was the supreme commander of the Abbasid army {amir al-umara’), was 
appointed governor of the region of the Upper Euphrates. He wanted to 
prove his trustworthiness and ability by recapturing Egypt from the 
Ikhshld. Towards the end of939, the Egyptians suffered a crushing defeat 
in a battle in the neighbourhood of al-‘Arish, but they recovered and 
succeeded in pushing Ibn Ra’iq as far as Lajjun, where an indecisive battle 
took place in the middle of Ramadan, AH 328, that is the 24th ofjune AD 
940. In that battle, one of the brothers of the Ikhshld, Abu Nasr Husayn, 
who headed the Egyptian army, was killed. Ibn Ra’iq discovered the body 
himself and expressed his sorrow in the most unusual manner: he sent his 
own son, Abu’l-Fath Muzahim, aged seventeen, to the Ikhshld, to do with 
him whatever he saw fit. The Ikhshld behaved nobly as well, showered 
Muzahim with presents and splendid robes, and even married him off to 
his daughter Fatima. When peace was made in this fashion, the parties 
made an agreement that the Ikhshld would hold southern Palestine, in¬ 
cluding Ramla, while Ibn Ra’iq would rule over the area north of this and 
would receive 140,000 dinars from the Ikhshld annually. It was said that 
when he took Ramla during his advance to al-‘Arish, Ibn Ra’iq destroyed 
and vandalised the grave ofFadl b. Ja'far out of bitter enmity towards the 
family of Ibn Furat. He also executed two men who were in charge of 
Ramla on behalf of the Ikhshld and had them crucified, and this is how the 

after his death (on 11 Shawwal AH 350, 23 September AD 961); Abu’l-Fida’, Mukhtasar, 
II, 103; Yaffi, II, 344; cf. Wiistenfeld, Statthalter, IV, 44f. 

90 Ibn Sa'id, Mughrib, 7, 12, 24, 48; al-'uyun wa’l-hada’iq (MS Berlin), 175b; Ibn al-Athlr, 
Kamil, VIII, 354;Dhahabi, ‘Ibar, II, 208; Hamadhani, Takmila, 113; Ibn Khaldun, ‘ Ibar , III, 
840; Fadl was in charge of the kharaj in Egypt and al-Sham before he became al-Muqtadir’s 
wazir; he was also in the service of Ibn Ra’iq when the latter was supreme commander of 
the Abbasid army ( amtr al-utnara’); cf. Sourdel, Vizirat, II, 467ff; the article Ibn al-Furat 
(No. 4; by D. Sourdel) in EP\ Canard, translation ofal-Suli, 154f, n. 11; see further: Ibn 
Taghri Bardi, III, 264; cf. also Bacharach, Speculum , 50(1975), 593; in Maqrizi, Khitat, III, 
51 ff, we find the following details about al-Madhara’i (printed: al-Mardani): Muhammad 
b. ‘All al-Madhara’i was bom in Nisibis, on 13 Rabi‘ I AH 258, 26 February AD 871; he 
came to Egypt with his father when he was fourteen, and succeeded to his father’s office in 
the days of Khumarawayh, when he was fifteen. He served as the caliph's scribe, though 
his handwriting was not beautiful. He became wazir under Harun b. Khumarawayh, 
amassed riches and estates, until the Ikhshld took over Egypt. His property was then 
confiscated and he was handed over to Fadl b. Ja'far ibn Furat, in Ramla. Ibn Sa‘id, 
Mughrib, 25, notes that in Rajab AH 328, April AD 940, the son of Muhammad al- 
Madhara’i, Husayn, was appointed wazir in Egypt (on the orders of Anujur, the son of the 
Ikhshid) on 3 Muharram AH 335, the 4th of August AD 946; see also ibid., 269, 285ff, on 
the history of this family in Egypt. 


318 



THE IKHSHIDIDS [SECS. 473-488] 

Ikhshid found them on his return to Ramla. Ibn Ra’iq died two years after 
the pact was made and it is not known whether it was ever implemented. 91 

[477] At this point, another element appeared on the scene in Palestine, 
and this was the Hamdanids. They were a family of the Banu Taghlib who 
had gained a reputation at the beginning of the latter half of the ninth 
century as courageous fighters, when they set up a sort of independent 
local rule in the region of the northern Tigris. At the start of the tenth 
century, they were involved in court intrigues and internal squabbles in 
Baghdad. They were also known for their pro-Shiite leanings. At that 
time, they gradually established themselves in two centres, Mosul and 
Aleppo, and the source of their power lay in the Arab tribes in the area. 
The master of Aleppo during the period we are dealing with was Abu’l- 
Hasan ‘All ibn Hamdan, called Sayf al-dawla, and he set up his base there, 
relying on the support of the Banu Kilab. His ambition was to conquer 
Damascus and also to advance southward into Palestine. At first he met 
with success, and in a battle on the Rastan, a river which flows southward 
towards Hamah, he was victorious. He took a thousand men captive and 
afterwards gained control of Damascus. The Ikhshid then set up his 
army’s camp in Tiberias and from there started to move northward. As 
many of Sayf al-dawla’s men went over to his side, the Ikhshid concluded 
that campaign with a resounding victory over his enemy in a battle near 
Qinnasrln, in 945. After the death of the Ikhshid however, in July 946, 
Sayf al-dawla considered the time favourable for realising his aspirations. 
His army thrust southward and took over all of Palestine. On Tuesday, 
the 24th ofjumada I AH 335, that is the 22nd of December AD 946, the 
battle was fought between the army of the Ikhshldids who had come up 
from Egypt and Sayf al-dawla’s army, at Iksal in the Galilee, and Sayf 

91 Al-Suli, 135, and see Canard’s translation, 202, n. 10; Kindi, 288f; Ibn Miskawayh, 414: in 
Dhu’l-Hijja, AH 328, or October AD 940, news reached Baghdad of the victory of Ibn 
Ra’iq in al-‘Arish; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, VIII, 363f; the battle of Lajjun was on the 4th of 
Dhu’l-Hijja AH 328, the 22nd of September AD 940; Ibn Shaddad, fol. 105b; Hamadhani, 
Takmila, 116f; Ibn SaTd, Mughrib, 25: Ibn Ra’iq conquered Ramla on the last day of 
Dhu’l-Hijja AH 327, 17 October AD 939, hence the war lasted for about one year; Ibn 
SaTd returns to the account on Ibn Ra’iq on pp. 28f, as if there were two wars between the 
parties; he adds that in return for Muzahim, Ibn Ra’iq’s son, being with the Ikhshid, the 
latter’s brother ‘Abdallah, was obliged to be Ibn Ra’iq’s hostage; when Muzahim was on 
his way to the Ikhshid, he met the Ikhshid’s messengers and they told him, on his behalf, 
that his brother ‘Abdallah’s slaves were weeping and would not let him go, and therefore 
they proposed that Muzahim return to his father until the son of the Ikhshid, Anujur, is 
sent to him. See further: Ibn Kathir, Bidaya, XI, 192; Ibn Khallikan, V, 118 (a short article 
on Ibn Ra’iq); Ibn Khaldun, ‘[bar. III, 853; IV, 669; Ibn ‘Adim, Zubda, I, 100, 102; Ibn 
Taghri Bardi, III, 253; Maqrizi, Khitat, II, 116; Safadi, al-Waft, III, 69; Baybars, 140a; cf. 
Wiistenfeld, Statlhalter IV, 27f; Lane-Poole, History, 83. On Ibn Ra’iq (who was a Khazar 
by origin) see also: Canard’s translation of al-Suli, 82, n. 2; the article Ibn Ra’iq (by D. 
Sourdel) in EP; cf. Bacharach. Speculum, 50(1975), 599f. It is important to note that at the 
time Ibn Ra’iq was controlling southern Palestine, the mint in Tiberias produced coins 


319 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


al-dawla suffered a crushing defeat which forced him to retreat to Aleppo 
in the north while the army of the Ikhshldids advanced and entered 
Damascus. At the head of the latter army stood the Ikhshld’s brother, 
Hasan ibn Tughj, Abu’l-Qasim Unujur (or Anujur), the Ikhshld’s son, 
and the regent of Egypt, the black Kafur. This was not the end of the 
Hamdanid involvement in the politics of the area. They continued to be set 
upon spreading southward, and we shall meet up with them again fighting 
on Palestinian soil. 92 

[478-479] The court of the Hamdanids in Aleppo became a meeting 
place for writers and thinkers, among them the celebrated poet al-Muta¬ 
nabbi and the philosopher (Turkish by origin) Abu Nasr Muhammad b. 
Muhammad al-Farabi. Al-Farabi died en route when he was travelling 
from Damascus to Ascalon, when he was attacked by an armed band. He 
offered them his pack-animals and arms and everything he possessed, but 
they refused and as he had no alternative but to defend himself, he fought 
them until his death, together with that of his party. The Hamdanids 
would not abandon the search until they caught the attackers and crucified 
them near al-Farabi’s grave. These events, which as far as I know are only 
reported by al-Bayhaqi, evidently indicate the decline of internal security 
after the defeat of Sayf al-dawla. One can assume that armed units of this 
kind (the source refers to them as ‘a band of robbers’ commonly called 
al-fityan, that is, men of the futuwwa) were acting under the aegis of the 
Ikhshldids, and thus al-Farabi and the others paid with their lives for 
belonging to the Hamdanid circles. 93 The internal contradictions and daily 
rivalry between the two focal points of power and influence, one depen¬ 
dent on the tribes with its centre in Aleppo and the other headed by the 
Turkish establishment, the Ikhshldids, is also to be seen in the story of the 
poet al-Mutanabbi, who was, as I have mentioned, of the Hamdanid 
circle. The governor of Damascus at that time (that is, its governor on 
behalf of the Ikhshldids) was a Jew who hailed from Tadmur called Ibn 
Malik. He demanded that al-Mutanabbi write a poem in his honour, but 

imprinted with the names of the caliph al-Muttaqi and his son Abu Mansur. See dirhams 
of this kind: Blau und Stickel, ZDMG, 11(1857), 451 (No. 17). 

92 See the entries: Hamdanids (by M. Canard) in EP, and Saif al-Dawla (by B. Carra de 
Vaux) in EP; Kindi, 295; Yahya ibn Sa‘Id (PO) , 67; al-uyun wa’l-hada’iq, IV, 395f; 
Dhahabi, ‘Ibar, II, 232; Ibn ‘Adlm, Zubda, I, 114, 117; Yafi‘1, II, 312; IbnTaghrlBardi, III, 
291f: according to whom the battle did not take place in Iksal but in Lajjun (he quotes from 
al-Musabbihl, who cited Mas'udI, who was actually a contemporary of these events; it is 
interesting that he does not mention Anujur at all, evidently because he was very young at 
the time); Baybars, 106a; cf. Canard, Hamdanides , 581f, 586; Bacharach, Speculum, 
50(1975), 61Of, 609. 

93 See the articles al-Farabi (by R. Walzer) and Futuwwa (by C. Cahen), in EP; see Bayhaqi, 
Ta’rTkh, 33f; he calls those who pursued the assassins, unuira' al-sham; this is an expression 
that is difficult to interpret precisely, but it seems that he wanted to say ‘the northern 
commanders’ or the ‘Syrians’, and he seems to have meant the Hamdanids. Bayhaqi 


320 



THE IKHSHIDIDS [SECS. 473-488] 

the poet refused and fled to Ramla, where the governor of the city, 
al-Hasan ibn ‘Ubaydallah ibn Tughj (the nephew of the Ikhshid), received 
him with honours. 94 

[480] In the year 962, a rebellion took place in Trans-Jordan which was 
led by Muhammad b. Ahmad al-Sulaml (of the Sulaym tribe). According 
to the brief description by Yahya ibn Sa‘Id, it seems that this was an 
uprising of the Arab tribes. Kafur sent an army from Egypt to fight against 
them, and the Banu ‘Uqayl whose centre was in Syria, came to assist the 
army under their leader,Thimal al-Khafajl. They managed to entrap the 
leader of the uprising, brought him to Egypt and showed him to the 
masses riding on an elephant on Saturday, the 5th of Dhu’l-Qa‘da AH 351, 
that is, 5 December AD 962. Al-Sulaml was kept in jail for some time and 
eventually released. 95 

[481] Two generations after having controlled the Galilee and the city of 
Tiberias, the Qarmatis again turned up within Palestinian borders. In 
Jumada I AH 353 (May AD 964), they raided Tiberias. They then 
demanded that Sayf al-dawla, the Hamdanid master of Aleppo, supply 
them with iron. Sayf al-dawla ordered the gates of the city of Raqqa to be 
dismantled, and that even the scales of the merchants be confiscated, and 
supplied the Qarmatis with an abundance of iron. This strange story 
apparently is evidence of the extent of the collaboration between the 
Qarmatis and the Arab tribes in the north. In continuation to their in¬ 
vasion of Tiberias, the Qarmatis managed actually to dominate all of 
Palestine, and after a number of raids on Ramla, the Ikhshidid governor of 
Palestine, al-Hasan ibn ‘Ubaydallah, was forced to pay them an annual 
tax. The Qarmatl leader, Abu ‘All al-Hasan al-A‘sam b. Ahmad b. Bah¬ 
rain, was in Ramla in AH 356 (AD 967). On 2 Dhu’l-Hijja AH 357, that is 
the 28th of October AD 968, a great battle was fought between the 
Qarmatis and the Ikhshidids (evidently in Ramla or nearby). A man 
related to the ‘Alids, Akhu Muslim known also as Abu Muhammad or 
‘Abdallah ibn ‘Ubaydallah, was also active against the Ikhshidids. Kafur, 

mentions these things in the name of his teacher, Yahya b. ‘Abd al-Malik (see the 
Introduction, ibid., 4). 

94 See a fragment of MS Paris Asselin No. 705, quoted in Ibn Khallikan, translated by De 
Slane, I, 183, in the note. It is taken from the treatise of Yusuf al-Badli al-Dimashql (the 
seventeenth century); see: Vajda, Index, No. 3107; Brockelmann, CAL, I, 88; see also: 
Goldziher, Hebraeische Bibliographic, 10(1870), 59f, who quotes al-BadI‘1 from MS Refaia 
No. 357; Palestine, at the time, was evidently a haven for rebels and people of the 
opposition, perhaps owing to Hasan ibn ‘Abdallah, the Ikhshidid, who was governor of 
Ramla. There Muhammad b. Yahya, nicknamed al-Siraj (‘the candle’), found refuge. He 
was a Maghribi who was an active opponent of the Ikhshld’s sons after the latter’s death 
and led a rebellion against them, on 18 Rabl‘ AH 335, the 21st of November AD 946; see 
Kindi, 295, and cf. also Sawlrus, 11(2), 86, who calls that rebel Hananiya and says the 
contrary (which is not credible), that it was the Ikhshld’s sons who fled to Palestine then. 

95 Yahya ibn Said (PO), 92. 


321 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


the Ikhshldid regent, appointed him governor of Palestine and Syria in 
April 968. We do not know if the intention was to oust the Ikhshldid 
Hasan from his office, for he was governor of Ramla at that time. This 
same Akhu Muslim had far-reaching ambitions and saw himself as the 
legitimate heir of the ‘Alids, worthy of being considered the tnahdt and of 
ruling the Muslim world. Thimal al-Khafajl, one of the leaders of the 
Arab tribe of Syria, the Banu ‘Uqayl, supported him. When these two 
headed an attack against Hasan, they were defeated in a battle fought near 
Ramla. But afterwards they attacked ag'ain, in an alliance with the Qar¬ 
matls. The allies won and the Ikhshldid was forced to retreat from Ramla 
to Jerusalem. For two days the Qarmatls plundered Ramla, until the 
inhabitants undertook to pay ransom to the extent of 125,000 Egyptian 
dinars. Many of the local inhabitants were taken captive by the Qarmatls. 
The Ikhshldid then came to an agreement with the Qarmatls, according to 
which he had to pay them an annual tax of300,000 dinars. He then left for 
Egypt and it seems that his journey was connected with the internal power 
struggles going on within Egypt at the time and also with the need to raise 
this money. 96 

[482] Concurrent with these events, the power of Byzantium was on the 
rise in its unending struggle with the Muslim world. This was a drawn- 
out process which must be seen against the background of the internal 
divisions and contentions within Islam. Firstly, one is referring, naturally, 
to the increasing power of the extremist Shiites, the Qarmatls and the 
Fatimids, and the gradual separation of Egypt from the body of the 
caliphate, a process which weakened the Muslim world. This was well 
understood by a Muslim thinker of the tenth century who wrote: 

When the kings oflslam followed the wicked path and began to debase it [Islam], 
and they began to be attacked by people like ‘All b. Hamdan, or the enemies of the 
Muslims in Egypt, people who expropriate the property of the waqf in the ports, 

96 Ibn al-Jawzi, Muntazam, VII, 19; Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya , XI, 254; Ibn Miskawayh, II, 203, 
describes the year 353 (964) as calamitous, in which there was drought and starvation; 
some 50,000 people fled, he writes, from the densely populated centres of Iraq to Da¬ 
mascus and Ramla; see further: Baybars, fol. 196; on the arrival in Ramla of Hasan the 
Qarmati and on the battle, see Yahyaibn Sa'id, 119; Ibn ‘Asakir, IV, 148ff; ‘Iyad, 301 ff; see 
also Ibn Taghri BardI, III, 336; and cf. Madelung, Der Islam, 34(1959), 54f; Bianquis, 
Annales islamologiques, 11(1972), 53-57; Mez, 63f; on Hasan the Ikhshldid and his ex¬ 
pedition to Egypt: Ibn Khallikan, V, 59ff: he stayed in Egypt until 1 Rabf II, AH 385, 22 
February AD 969, and then returned to Ramla; cf. Ibn Taghri Bardl, IV, 21 (quoting from 
Ibn Khallikan). Thejerusalem Karaite, Yefetb. ‘All, a contemporary, is perhaps hinting at 
that period of scarcity and heavy taxes in his commentary on Nahum i: 13 (For now will I 
break his yoke from off thee, and will burst thy bonds in sunder): ‘that was the end of their 
enslaving Israel and collecting the kharaj from them. Then the kharaj will be abolished, as 
well as those who collect it from Israel, the jahabidha' (plural of jahbadh, the money¬ 
changers who were usually entrusted with the collection of taxes in exchange for the credit 
they offered the ruler). See the Hirschfeld ed., 20. 


322 



THE IKHSHIDIDS [SECS. 473-488] 

the Muslims lost their worth in the eyes of the Byzantines, who say: it is now 
eighty years that Islam is losing its rule. As these lines are being written we are in ca. 
385 [AH, that is AD 995]. 

In other words, in the opinion of the writer (who attributes his view to the 
Byzantines), the waning process started at the beginning of the tenth 
century. 

The Byzantine armies chalked up a number of important achievements 
to their credit. In the days of the emperor Romanus II (959-963), the island 
of Crete was taken, having formerly served as a naval base for the 
Muslims. At the head of the Cretan campaign stood the commander 
Niceophorus Phocas, who afterwards became emperor (963-969). During 
his reign, Cilicia, Tarsus, and Cyprus were conquered and the way to 
Syria was opened. The Byzantines’ first hold over Aleppo was in 351, that 
is 962. They then seized the city, but did not take the citadel, and after 
much despoiling and killing, withdrew. In 969, the year the Fatimids 
conquered Egypt, the Byzantines subjugated Antioch and in fact took 
possession of the whole area of Aleppo. Abu’l-Ma‘all Sharif, known as 
Sa‘d al-dawla, became their vassal. It was the assassination of the emperor 
Nicephorus which brought a halt to the campaign. Obviously, the pur¬ 
pose of the Byzantine expedition was the fulfilment of their dream to 
conquer Jerusalem after more than 300 years of Muslim occupation. A 
Muslim tradition has it that after the taking of Tarsus in AH 357 (AD 968), 
Nicephorus ascended the minbar of the chief mosque there and asked: 
‘Where am I?’ The reply was: ‘on the minbar of Tarsus’. Whereupon he 
said: ‘not so, I am on the minbar of Jerusalem; it is this city which stood 
between you and it’. Bar Hebraeus points out that it was indeed Nicepho¬ 
rus’ intention to proceed to Jerusalem after conquering Antioch and 
Aleppo, but the army was exhausted and laden down with spoils. Accord¬ 
ing to Hamadhanl, the Byzantine emperor reached as far as Tripoli. He set 
fire to the city and took captive 100,000 youths and maidens from the 
coastal towns. He meant to turn to Jerusalem but was afraid of the 
Qarmatis, who were encamped in Palestine after having attacked (Hasan) 
ibn ‘Abdallah ibn Tughj (the Ikhshidid governor of Palestine). According 
to the treaty between the amir of Aleppo and the Byzantines, the Syrian 
districts ruled by the Hamdanids fell under the suzerainty of the Byzantine 
emperor and took upon themselves the responsibility for defending the 
Byzantine merchants’ convoys. Byzantine sources see the northern Arab 
tribes, particularly the Banu ‘Uqayl, as a form of vassals of Byzantium, 
and they appear in this guise in the account of the war against the Fatimids, 
which I shall deal with below. 97 

77 See what ‘Abd al-Jabbar says on the decline of Islam, in Tathbit, I, 168. On the disturb¬ 
ances: Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, VIII, 541f, 603f; Ibn al-‘Adim, Zubda, 1,157-169 (the years AH 


323 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


[483-484] The period of the Ikhshidids was marked by a series of acts of 
persecution of the Christians. In AH 325, that is AD 937, the Muslims 
assailed the Church of the Resurrection, set fire to it and robbed it of its 
treasures; three years later, the church of St Mary ‘the green’ in Ascalon 
was destroyed and plundered, with the help of the local Jews. The church 
was burnt down and the local bishop was forced to flee to Ramla and never 
again returned to Ascalon. 98 There is evidently some connection between 
these acts and the animosity towards Byzantium, which became more 
acute during the period of the Ikhshidids. Into the pattern of this relation¬ 
ship between the two worlds, the Muslim and the Christian, are woven 
the relations between the two communities of dhimmls in Palestine-Jews 
and Christians - between one another and the attitude of the Muslim 
authorities to each of them. The tension between Jews and Christians is 
not only evident in the incident in Ascalon but also in echoes that reached 
the distant west. This is a rather legendary story about a letter sent by the 
patriarch ofjerusalem to Constantinople and to Rome, whose main points 
were presented before the Church Council in Erfurt (932). It tells there of a 
quarrel between Jews and Christians in Jerusalem, in which the Muslims 

357-359); Hamadhanl, Takmila, 201; Qalqashandi, Ma’athir , 305f; Ibn al-Dawadari, 130f; 
Matthew of Edessa, 15-22; Bar Hebraeus (Bedjan), 191; (Budge), 172; see sec. 550 on the 
description of the continuation of the Byzantine campaign, at the time of the Fatimids, and 
further references there. The blatant religious background to the Byzantine campaign is 
borne out by Nicephorus’ request that the Church consider those who had fallen in battle 
against the Muslims as saints. As he was quarrelling with the Church over finances, his 
request was rejected; see Mez, 286; Krumbacher, Geschichte, II, 985; the Byzantine wars 
against the Muslims in the tenth century are also discussed in: Honigmann, Ostgrenze , 
93-103. He has many details relating to the historical geography of these campaigns, but 
the events in Palestine and its region are insufficiently clear, probably due to an unfam¬ 
iliarity with the Arabic sources. He lacks a proper description of the conquests and the 
suppressive acts of the Byzantines during their first campaign, while the description of the 
second campaign is superficial and faulty. He also did not notice the parallel between the 
emperor’s letter to the king of Armenia and the Arab sources, and claims that the so-called 
great victories of the emperor in 974 are not mentioned in either the Greek or Arab sources 
- which is incorrect. On the campaign of 959-969, it is also worth noting the account 
preserved in DhahabI, al-‘Ayn, MS Bodl Digby Or 15, fol. 122b £F; he stresses in particular 
its cruel character and considerable spilling of blood and the many prisoners captured by 
the invaders. According to him, Damascus was also taken then (his dates are generally 
confused; this occurred in AH 353, i.e. AD 968, he writes). 

58 Yahya ibn SaTd ( PO ), 21; Maqrlzi, Khitat, III, 399; cf. Vincent et Abel, Jerusalem, 11(2), 
939; apparently this church became a mosque afterwards, but it reverted to a church in the 
name of St John or St Paul under the Crusaders. A document from the Crusaders’ era, 
somewhere between 1163-1168, mentions the church of Stjohn and points out that it was 
formerly known by the name Mahumeria (i.e. mosque); and it is evidently the Mahumeria 
cathara or viridis (that is, the pure or green mosque), mentioned in 1160 in a collection of 
documents of the Holy Sepulchre; see the document: Kohler, ROC, 7(1899), 143; see also: 
Vincent, H&bron , 241, who quotes the Cartulairc du St Sepulchre, edited by de Roziere, pp. 
115ff (No. 58): Amalric, Count of Ascalon, confirms the donation of an estate to the Holy 
Sepulchre in exchange for that Mahumeria viridis. It is worth noting the opinion of 
Albright, AJSLL, 41(1925), 91, who still found the veneration, in the region of Ascalon, 


324 



THE IKHSHIDIDS [SECS. 473-488) 

( Sarracenoi) supported the Jews, as a result of bribery. After the Jews and 
the Christians locked up their houses of prayer (templum Domini, that is, 
the Church of the Holy Sepulchre and th esacellum of the Jews), and each of 
the sides fasted for three days, the Christian shrine opened like a miracle 
and revealed the crucified Jesus in all his glory, in the glow of self-lighting 
incandescence. This caused the Jews ofjerusalem to hasten and convert to 
Christianity. The only germ of truth in the entire story seems to be that 
there was inter-faith tension in Jerusalem and that Muslims and Jews 
joined together against the Christians, as in Ascalon. 

The Ikhshldids did not hesitate to use the Palestinian Christians as a tool 
to put pressure on the Byzantines when they thought the moment was 
right. Such was the case in 940, when they found out that the Byzantines 
were abusing the Muslim captives. The Ikhshldids put pressure on them 
through the patriarch ofjerusalem. This is also reflected in the Ikhshld’s 
letter to the emperor Romanus, a version of which has been preserved in 
Ibn Sa'id. The Ikhshid prides himself on being the ruler of‘Filastin, the 
sacred land, in which there are the al-Aqsa mosque and the Christian 
patriarch ... and to which Christians and Jews make pilgrimages ... and 
where the Messiah and his mother were born, and is the place where the 
sepulchres of the two are to be found ... ’" 

[485] Towards the end of May 966, severe anti-Christian riots occurred 
in Jerusalem, and one can assume that these were also a reverberation of 
the Byzantine campaign which I have described earlier. The church of St 
Constantine and the church of the Resurrection were ransacked and the 
latter’s dome collapsed as the result of setting the building on fire, and the 
patriarch ofjerusalem, John VII, died in that same conflagration. ‘The 
Jews have overtaken the Muslims in their acts of destruction and ruin¬ 
ation’, remarks Yahya ibn Sa’id. He attributes the responsibility for these 
disturbances to the governor of Jerusalem on behalf of the Ikhshldids, 
Muhammad b. Isma'Il al-Sinajl, who was taking his revenge on the 


of al-sitt al-khadra, or sittna al-khadra (‘the green Lady’) by Arab women (in 1925) which he 
assumed to be a remnant of the worship of Ashtoret. 

99 See the sources on the letter of the patriarch of Jerusalem: MGH, Legum sectio IV, 
Constitutiones et acta publica (ed. L. Weiland, Hann. 1893), 4f, 7.; Quellen zur bayrischen 
und deutschen Geschichte, I, 410f; Riant, MAIBL, 31(1884), 166. Cf. Starr, Jews, 151 (No. 
90). Sharf ( ByzantineJewry. 95) quotes from a secondary source, in an incorrect manner; he 
evades the fact that a letter from the patriarch ofjerusalem is being referred to, and his 
discussion there of the degree of truth in the story of the conversion is based on what is said 
by the Karaite commentator Salmon b. Yeruhim in his commentary to Psalms, ch. xxx, a 
generation or more after the Council of Erfurt, the significance of which will be clarified 
below, in the discussion of the events of 966-975. Pressure by the patriarch (the jathaliq, 
catholicus); Ibn al-jawzl, Muntazam, VI, 353; the Ikhshtd's letter: ibn Sa'id, Mughrib, 18ff, 
cf.: Canard, AIEO, 2(1936), 189-209, and his translation, commentary and discussion. 
The time of the letter: 325, i.e. 937. 


325 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


Christians because they would not submit to his demands for gratuities. 

Yahya ibn Sa‘Td describes the events as follows: this happened in the 
days of the patriarch Yuhanna b. Jami‘. The governor of Jerusalem, 
Muhammad b. Isma‘11 al-Sinaji would wrong him at every opportunity 
and requested bribes beyond the legal norms of taxation. The patriarch’s 
repeated complaints to Kaffir were of no avail, despite the fact that Kaffir 
asked the governor of Ramla, Hasan b. ‘Ubaydallah ibn Tughj, to inter¬ 
vene and put a halt to these abuses. The efforts of the Christian officials in 
Egypt also did not help. On the feast of Pentecost (al-‘ansara) al-Sinaji 
again tried to extort more than he was due. Whereupon, the patriarch 
went down to Ramla and complained to Hasan ibn ‘Ubaydallah, and the 
latter sent one of the commanders of the army named Takin, to accom¬ 
pany him and to warn al-Sinaji. However, the latter had gathered a large 
group of his followers together and demanded that the patriarch come to 
hitn. When the patriarch learned of this gathering, he hid in the church of 
the Resurrection. Al-Sinaji rode there with his men, while placing Takin, 
Hasan’s messenger, in jail. The patriarch refused to go out to him, though 
he was promised an atnan. Then al-Sinaji’s crew set fire to the gates of St 
Constantine’s church and afterwards also to the gates of the church of the 
Resurrection. The dome of the church of the Holy Sepulchre collapsed and 
the church was looted. The church of Zion was also robbed and burnt 
down. On the following day, Tuesday, the patriarch was found hiding in 
one of the oil basins of the church of the Resurrection. He was killed, 
dragged to the church of St Constantine, and there his body was tied to a 
pillar and set on fire. 100 

[486] In April 968, Kaffir, the regent of Egypt, died. From this juncture 
onwards, anarchy reigned in Egypt. The son of ‘All, the Ikhshid’s son, 
Abu’l-Fawaris Ahmad, who was to have succeeded as ruler of Egypt, was 
eleven years old, and the central political figure was Ibn Hinzaba, that is, 
Ja‘far, son of Fadl b. Ja‘far ibn Furat. The army wanted Hasan ibn ‘Ubay¬ 
dallah, governor of Ramla, who was the cousin of the child-ruler’s father, 
to be regent of Egypt. Hasan, however, became involved in the struggle 
going on in Palestine at the time. Out of despair, Hasan b. ‘Ubaydallah, 


100 Yahya ibn Sa'id ( PO ), 94f, 101—104; Cedrenus (Bonn), II, 374; Le Quien, III, 466; 
Baumstark, Bauten, 16f; Riant, MAIBL, 31 (1884), 164; Dositheos, in Papadopoulos I, 
243; see ibid.. Ill, 129. Another version of the governor of Jerusalem’s name; al-Sabahl, 
and this is understandably the result of the Arabic script. See the fragment from Dhahabi’s 
Ta’rikh af-Islam, quoted in Ibn Miskawayh, II, 220f; the patriarch complained to Kafur 
about the burning of the church, and Kafur wrote to the governor ofjerusalem, but in the 
interim, the attack on the church and the murder of the patriarch took place. Kafur 
informed the Byzantine emperor that he would renovate the church and that it would be 
even lovelier than it had been before, but the emperor replied: ‘No, I shall build it, with 
the sword.’ 


326 



THE IKHSHIDIDS [SECS. 473-488] 

the Ikhshidid, appealed to the Fatimid caliph al-Mu‘izz and invited him to 
come and establish order in Egypt. 101 

[487] It appears that the Ikhshidids showed special interest in Palestine 
and Jerusalem, although explicit evidence of this fact is rather meagre. An 
inscription on the Temple Mount testifies that a wall was built (or reno¬ 
vated?) there on the order of‘All, the Ikhshid’s son, and Kafur, in AH 350, 
that is, AD 961/2. As to Ramla, the major city of Palestine, apparently a 
number of government officials, Turkish leaders and others, preferred it 
to Egypt. Some of the leaders of the ‘ Alids, heads of the Shiites, also lived 
in Palestine at that time. The family of the descendants of‘Abbas b. ‘All 
Ibn Abi Talib lived in Tiberias and they seem to have had contacts with the 
Qarmatis. A member of this family, of the eighth generation since ‘All, 
Lahha Abu’l-Tayyib Muhammad b. Hamza, who has been mentioned 
above, succeeded in accumulating a great deal of property and possessed 
enormous wealth and estates. As mentioned, he was killed by Tughj, the 
Ikhshid’s father, because of his connections with the Qarmatis. In Ramla, 
there lived the family of the aforementioned Akhu Muslim: the two 
brothers al-Hasan and ‘Ubaydallah (the father of this Akhu Muslim), the 
sons of Tahir b. Yahya and their families. ‘Ubaydallah had two other sons 
apart from Akhu Muslim: Abu Ja‘far Muslim and Abu’l-Husayn ‘Isa. Abu 
Ja‘far Muslim was the oldest and considered the leader of the ‘Alids in his 
time. Ibn Sa‘Id mentions another family of the ‘Alids in Ramla and the 
tnajlis of Tahir b. Husayn. Of his son, al-Hasan, it is told that he received 
very large grants amounting to 15,000 dinars, from Ibn Ra’iq after the 
latter reached the agreement with the Ikhshld and withdrew from 
Ramla. 102 

[488] I have already mentioned the estates of the Ikhshidids in Palestine 
and the coins they minted there. It is obvious that close links existed 
between Egypt and Palestine in their day. The variety of dinars and their 
improved quality are witness to economic development and flourishing 
commerce. Thejews were undoubtedly involved in this process. Accord- 

101 See Ibn al-Dawadarl, 120ff; Ibn Khallikan, I, 346 (with an interpretation of the name Ibn 
Hinzaba: Hinzaba was his grandmother, his father’s mother). Cf. Lane-Poole, History , 
89f; Bianquis, Annates islamologiques, 11(1972), 63f; see coins minted in Palestine (evi¬ 
dently in Ramla) found in Ramla, from the period of the end of the Ikhsidid’s rule, 
imprinted with the names of the sons of the Ikhshld: Abu’l-Qasim (Anujur, AH 335-346, 
i.e. AD 948-958); ‘All (AH 353, i.e. AD 964); Kaffir (AH 355, i.e. AD 966); Abu’l- 
Fawaris Ahmad b. ‘All, together with al-Hasan ibn ‘Ubaydallah (AH 357/8, i.e. AD 968), 
in: Mitchell and Levy, INJ, 3(1965/6), 48ff; see a coin from Ramla ( bi-filastin) with the 
name of Abu’l-Qasim, son of the Ikhshld, from the year AH 345 (AD 956/7), in Blau and 
Shekel, ZDMG, 11(1857), 458. 

102 The inscription: Repertoire chronologique, IV, No. 1541 (pp. 172f). Tiberias: Ibn Hazm, 
Jamhara, 67; see Ibn Sa'Id, Mughrib, 5, 38f (with a story of a woman of Ramla whose son 
was arrested and how he was returned to her), 51; cf. Bianquis, ibid., 56f (who did not 
notice Ramla’s special status in these matters). 


327 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


ing to Arab sources, the Jew ‘AH b. Khalaf (Aaron), a Babylonian poli¬ 
tician and financier, was in the service of the Ikhshld, and also stood by 
him in his war with Ibn Ra’iq. On the other hand, this ‘Alt had connections 
with Nasir al-Dawla, the Hamdanid ruler of northern Syria. Eventually 
the Ikhshld had him jailed, and he was only released after the Ikhshid’s 
death in the summer of 946, on the orders of Muhammad b. ‘All al- 
Madhara’I, Another Jew serving the Ikhshldids was the aforementioned 
Ibn Malik, governor of Damascus on their behalf. It appears that the 
westward migration of the Jewish merchants from Iraq during that 
period, engendered by the harsh internal conditions in the Abbasid 
caliphate, contributed gready to the economic prosperity in Palestine 
and Egypt. 103 


Muslim personalities in Palestine during the period of the Tulunids and 

Ikhshldids 

[489] One of the most pre-eminent and celebrated figures in Palestine 
during this period was Muhammad b. ‘Uthman, who is Abu Zur‘a 
al-Dimashql, and was the chief cadi of Damascus, later appointed to Egypt 
and the junds FilastTn and Urdunn as well. He was given this further 
appointment by the Tulunid ruler, Harun ibn Khumarawayh, in AH 284, 
that is AD 897, and he established himself in Egypt. Safadi tells of his 
home in Damascus, which was near bab al-barid, and also notes that his 
grandfather was a Jew who converted to Islam and that his family were 
clients (mawali) of the Umayyads (or oftheBanu Thaqif). He was the man 
who prevailed over the Shaft‘I madhhab (school of law) in Egypt, and from 
then onwards, until AH 664, that is AD 1266, the chief cadis there were of 
this school. He died in Damascus in AH 302, that is AD 914/5. 104 

[490] Of the scholars of Muslim law who flourished in Palestine, one 
should also mention Ahmad ibn ‘All ibn Shu‘ayb al-Nasa’T, who wrote 
one of the six compilations of law recognised in Islam. Because of his 
Shiite convictions he was forced to leave Damascus for Ramla, where he 
died in AH 302, that is AD 914/5, some say he was murdered. 105 

103 See Mas'udI, Muruj, VIII, 65; IX, 31; Ibn a]-Athir, Kamil , VIII, 310, 385; Ibn Said, 
Mughrib, 45 (see the translation on p. 70, and n. 7; p. 71, n. 2); on the westward migration, 
see: al-Suli, 251; Ibn al-JawzT, Muttta^am, VI, 331; Dhahabi, Ta’rikh (MS Paris 1581), fob 
197a; cf. Gil, Scfimot, NS 1(1979/80), 22f. My view there on the origin of‘All b. Khalaf 
needs revision. 

See Kindi, 480; Subkl, Tabaqat , III, 196ff; Safadi, al-Wajt, IV, 82. 

105 Ibn Khallikan, I, 78; Ibn al-Jawzi, Muntazam, VI, 131 f; Subkl, Tabaqat, III, 14ff, see also 
the editor’s note, which has more references. Cf. the article al-Nasa’I in EP (by A. J. 
Wensinck, and there he is called Ibn Shu'ayb, as in Ibn al-Jawzi and in Subki, whereas 


328 



MUSLIM PERSONALITIES CA. 870-970 [SECS. 489-542] 

[491-501] One of the most important Arab grammarians, Abu’l-Qasim 
‘Abd al-Rahman ibn Ishaq al-Zajjaji al-Nihawandl, lived in Tiberias for 
some time. As his name indicates, he came from Nihawand and was 
brought up and educated in Baghdad. According to one report, he was a 
friend of the person in charge of the Ikhshidids’ estates in Syria and 
Palestine, Ibn al-Harith, and when the latter left Damascus, he moved 
with him to Tiberias, where he died in Ramadan AH 340, that is February 
AD 952. His great treatise, al-jumal Jt’l-nahw (or al-jumal al-kubra) has been 
preserved in manuscript. 106 

A slightly younger contemporary who also lived in Tiberias was Sulay- 
man b. Ahmad b. Avyub, Abu’l-Qasim al-Lakhml al-Tabaram. He was 
born in Acre in AH 260 (AD 874), whence he moved to Tiberias. Later on, 
he spent a year in Jerusalem and after that, in Caesarea. In his old age, he 
moved to Hints in Syria, and wandered as far as Isfahan, Persia, where he 
died on the 18th of Dhu’l-Qa‘da AH 360 (12 October AD 971). He wrote 
many books and he became renowned mainly for his collections of hadlths 
arranged in the order of personalities’ names, one of which was printed: 
al-mu'jam al-saghtr . 107 

Tiberias during that century was a thriving centre of Muslim scholar¬ 
ship and apart from those already mentioned, we know of a number of 
Muslim intellectuals and spiritual leaders who settled there and are men¬ 
tioned in al-Tabaram’s anthology. To mention but a few, there was ‘Abd 
al-Wahid ibn Ishaq, who died ca. 900; 108 Tahir b. ‘All b. ‘Abdus Abu’l- 
Tayyib, a contemporary of‘Abd al-Wahid, who was the cadi of Tiberias 
and a descendant of a family of converts, mawalT of the Banu Hashim, that 
is, of the Abbasids; 109 and Hamid b. al-Hasan al-Bazzar (a seed or grain 
merchant), who was a notary ( mu'addal ) at the same time and who was a 
pupil of another Tiberian, Salih b. Bishr. 110 

Another figure who settled in Tiberias was a man from Basra, Abu Bakr 
Yamut b. al-Muzarra‘, who died in Tiberias in AH 303 (AD 915/6). It was 
said that his real name was Muhammad, and that he was the nephew of the 

Shu'ayb was apparently his grandfather’s name); Sezgin, I, 167. With regard to his death 
there is conflicting information; according to one version he died in Mecca. 

106 Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, VIII, 491; Subkl, Tabaqat, III, 136; DhahabI, ‘ Ibar , II, 254; Ibn 
al-Athir, Lubab, I, 497; Ibn Taghri BardI, III, 302f; Ibn Khallikan, III, 136; cf. Brockel- 
mann, GAL, G I, 110; S I, 170f. 

107 Ibn Abl Ya‘la, II, 49f; Jazari, I, 311, Ibn al-Tmad, III, 30; Ibn ‘Asakir, VI, 240ff; Abu 
Nu'aym, Akhbar Isbahdn, I, 335; Ibn al-jawzl, Muntazam, VII, 54; Ibn al-Athir, Lubab, II, 
80; Ibn Taghri BardI, IV, 59; DhahabI, ‘Ibar, II, 315f (ibid, details with dates on his 
campaigns); idem, ‘Uliiw, 165; Yaqut, Buldan, III, 510; Ibn Khallikan, II, 407; cf. Sezgin, I, 
195ff, who has a list of his books, to which a collection (musnad) of hadlths in the name of 
al-Awza‘1 should be added, see Ishblll, II, 149. 

108 TabaranT, Mu'jam, II, 161. 

109 Ibid., I, 184; Ibn ‘Asakir, VII, 48f. 

110 TabaranI, Mu'jam, I, 155. 


329 




PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


greatest Arab writer of the time, al-Jahiz. ,u Another emigre who settled in 
Tiberias was Abu ‘Abdallah al-Tawazi, from Tawaz in Persia (in the 
province of Faris, near the Persian Gulf). He came to Tiberias via Bagh¬ 
dad, and died there in AH 308 (AD 920). 112 One generation later we find 
another man of Baghdad living in Tiberias - Abu’l-Faraj Muhammad ibn 
Sa‘id, who used to travel to Damascus and even to Egypt in order to 
expound his teachings. He died in about AH 355 (AD 965). 113 Living in 
Tiberias at the same time was Sa‘id ibn Hashim ibn Marthad al-Tabaranl, 
whose father Hashim I have mentioned above. 114 We also know the name 
of the governor of Tiberias in the days of the IkhshJdids; he was Mu¬ 
hammad b. Takln. As one can see from his name, he was a Turk. 115 One of 
the Islamic scholars who moved from Tiberias to Antioch was al-Hasan b. 
Hajjaj b. Ghalib, Abu ‘All ibn Haydara, also called al-Zayyat, that is to 
say, he was an oil merchant. He died in AH 347 (AD 958/9). 116 

[502—508] The following were teaching in Jerusalem during the same 
period: ‘Abdallah ibn Muhammad ibn Muslim al-Faryabl, hailed from 
Faryab in Khurasan, in thejuzjan district (some 150 kilometres west of 
Balkh). 117 One of the teachers of the Tiberias grammarian Abu’l-Qasim 
ibn Ishaq al-Zajjaji, Salama ibn Nahid al-Tiryaql, also lived in Jerusa¬ 
lem. 118 A man from ‘Aynun (the Hebron area) who lived in Jerusalem was 
‘Abd al-Samad b. Muhammad b. Abl ‘Imran, Abu Muhammad al-Hama- 
dani, that is, he hailed originally from Hamadan in jibal, or Media (ancient 
Ecbatana). He died in ‘Aynun in AH 294 (AD 906/7). 119 Two figures, 
perhaps father and son, whose death in Rabl* II 305 (October 917) is 
commemorated in a grave-inscription on the Temple Mount, were Hiba 
b. Sulayman and Salama b. Hiba, and they may also have been scholars of 
some stature in Muslim law. 120 A man from Baghdad who settled in 
Jerusalem was Ahmad ibn Mahmud, Abu’l-Husayn al-Shama‘I (the 

111 Al-Khatib al-Baghdadl, Ta’rtkh, XIV, 358;Jazari, II, 392; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, VIII, 96, 
106 (in the first place he lists him among the dead in AH 303, and in the other, in AH 304); 
Ibn Taghri Bardi, III, 191; Ibn Khallikan, VII, 53; Ibn al-jawzl, Muntazam, VI, 143 (who 
tells that he did not answer when asked what his name was, lest it be implied that he 
wishes to die: Yamut means: will die, in Arabic), 

112 Ibn Taghri Bardi, III, 199. Tawwaz (or: Tawwaj), see: Yaqut, Buldan, I, 8901) 894; Le 
Strange, Lands, 259 (according to whom - writing about a century ago - the site of this 
city, an important industrial town in the Middle Ages, was still unidentified). 

113 Al-Khatib al-Baghdadl, Ta'rikh, V, 312. 

114 Tabarani, Mu jam, I, 171. 

115 Ibn Sa'id. Mughrib, IV, 33. 

116 Ibn ‘Asakir, IV, 159f; Yaqut, Buldan, 111, 513. 

117 TabaranI, Mujam, I, 215; Faryab: cf. Le Strange, Lands, 425. 

118 Tabarani, Mujam, I, 174; Ibn al-Athlr, Lubab, I, 175; called al-Tiryaql because he was 
good at preparing the lirydq, a medicine for stomach illnesses. 

114 Tabarani, Mujam, I, 247; Yaqut, Buldan, III, 765; Jazari, I, 391; Ibn al-Athlr, Lubab, II, 
123. 

120 Repertoire chronologique, III, 108 (No. 988). 


330 




MUSLIM PERSONALITIES CA. 870-970 |SECS. 489-542] 

candle-maker), who died in Egypt in AH 352 (AD 963). 121 A contempo¬ 
rary from the same city, who also settled in Jerusalem and taught there, 
was Muhammad ibn Ibrahim Abu ‘Abdallah, a descendant of a family of 
converts, evidently Persians (the name of one of his ancestors was Mihran, 
a genuine Persian name), mawalT of the Banu Thaqlf. His father’s brother 
was one of the most famous Muslim teachers of the time, a man from 
Naysabur, Abu’l-‘Abbas Muhammad b. Ishaq al-Siraj (the candle) al- 
Naysaburl, who died in AH 313, that is AD 925. 122 In AH 340 (AD 951 12), 
a certain Ahmad b. Abl Karasa, who constructed a building for religious 
purposes (maqdm) on the Temple Mount, is named in an inscription 
there. 123 

[509-515] In Ramla, the ascetic Salih ibn Yusuf, Abu Shu'ayb al- 
Muqanna 1 (the veiled), became known for his teaching and his wisdom 
during the Tulunid period. He originated from Wasit in Iraq. Ahmad b. 
Muhammad al-MaqdisI, writing about the middle of the fourteenth cen¬ 
tury, mentions that people would come to his grave to pray for rain. Salih 
died in Ramla in AH 282, that is, AD 895. 124 Abu ‘Abd al-Mu’min Ahmad 
ibn Shayban and his pupil Abu Bakr ibn al-Murajja, who was a hdfiz (a title 
given to a very learned man, a prodigy), were both of Ramla. 125 For a time, 
during the same period, one of the outstanding Egyptian scholars, Bakr b. 
Sahl b. Isma‘11 b. Naff, Abu Muhammad al-Dumyatl lived in Ramla. He 
was of a family of converts, mawali of the Banu ‘Abbas. He remained in 
Ramla after making a pilgrimage to Mecca and died there in 289, that is 
902. It was said of him that when he stayed injerusalem, 1000 dinars were 
collected in order to convince him to remain there and teach tafsir, in¬ 
terpretation of the Koran. 126 Abu’l-Tayyib Ahmad b. Rlhan b. ‘Abdallah, 
of Baghdad, settled in Ramla and taught hadlth there and in Sidon as 
well. 127 Abu Bakr al-‘AtakI, who is Ahmad b. ‘Amr b. ‘Abd al-Khaliq, 
al-Bazzar, was one of the scholars of Islam of Basra who settled in Ramla. 
He died in Rabf I, 291, February 904 (some say, the following year). The 
name al-‘AtakI is derived from ‘Atlk, a clan of the Banu Azd (it seems that 
one of his ancestors was a client of that clan). He is said to have composed a 
collection of hadiths, al-musnad al-kabtr. 128 At the same time, there lived in 

121 Al-Khatib al-Baghdadl, Ta’rikh, V, 157. 

122 Ibid., I, 411; the time of his uncle’s death: ibid., 252; Subkl, Tabaqdt, III, 109, 

123 Repertoire chronologique, IV, 125f (No. 1458). 

124 MaqdisI, Muthir (KhalidI), 56; ‘Ulayml, 262. 

125 Tabarani, Mu'jam, II, 150; DhahabI, Mizan, I, 103; Ibn Hajar, Tahdhib, I, 39; who also 
knows the name of Ahmad’s grandfather: al-Walid b. Hassan. 

126 DhahabI, ‘Ibar, II, 82f; idem, Mizan, I, 245; Sam’anI, V, 277ff; Ibn ‘Asakir, III, 285f; 
Yaqut, Buldan, II, 606. 

127 Al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, Ta’rikh, IV, 160. 

128 Al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, Ta’rikh, IV, 334. ‘Atlk: Ibn al-Athlr, Lubah, II, 120; Ishblll, II, 
137f; Khafaji, II, 271: al-Bazzar, because he dealt in producing oil from flax-seed; 


33i 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


Ramla one of the greatest of Shafi‘1 scholars, Abu’l-Hasan Mansur b. 
Isma'Tl al-Darir (‘the blind’), who had the reputation of a faqih, that is, an 
expert on matters of Muslim law. He died in Fustat, in Jumada I 306, 
October 918. 129 Concurrently, one of the central figures in early Muslim 
mysticism (Sufism), also lived in Ramla. He was Ahmad b. Yahya, Abu 
‘Abdallah, who used to be called Ibn al-Jalla’, and who came from Bagh¬ 
dad. He had been a pupil of one of the first outstanding Sufi figures, the 
Egyptian Dhu’l-Nun (who died in 861). It was told that when he was 
young, he asked his parents ‘to give him to God’ and they agreed. He then 
left his home for a considerable time and when he wished to return, they 
would not let him enter the house despite the fact that it was raining 
heavily that night, for ‘we gave our son to God and we are Arabs, we do 
not take back what we have given’. He died in Rajab AH 306, that is 
December AD 918. 130 

[516-525] At the beginning of the tenth century, the cadi of Ramla was 
Abfi’l-Qasim ‘Abdallah b. Muhammad b. Ja‘far al-Qazwini; that is, he 
hailed from Qazwin in Persia. He spent his last years in Egypt, and died in 
AH 315, that is AD 927. It was said that towards the end of his life, he 
deviated from the right path and inclined to Shiism. 131 Following him in 
this role, we find as cadi of Ramla, Muhammad b. Muhammad, Abfi’l- 
Tayyib al-Hanzali, who died in Ramla in AH 337, that is, AD 948. 132 
‘Uthman b. Muhammad b. Shadhan was cadi in Ramla after that, and died 
during Kafur’s rule, in ca. 965. 133 Abfi’l-Qasim Muhammad b. al-Hasan 
al-Nakha‘I, known as Ibn Ka’s, also stayed in Ramla. He was a scholar 
from Kfifa, held various offices in Palestine and Syria, then returned to 
Baghdad, and from there he was sent to Ramla on a mission. He drowned 
on ‘Ashura’ in the year AH 324, that is, December AD 935. He was 
considered an expert in Abu Hanlfa’s system of law. 134 

Another scholar who lived in Ramla at the same time was a man of 
Dajfin (Beit Dagan), Muhammad b. Ahmad b. ‘Umar Abfi Bakr al-Darir 


Dhahabi, Dttwal, 1,139: he was the most famous scholar ofhis day; idem, ‘Ibar, II, 92; idem, 
Mtzan, I, 124 (Dhahabi has a different time for his death from that of the others: 192 [i.e. 
808], which is evidently an error); Abu Nu'aym, Akhbdr Isbahdn, I, 104f (according to 
whom he visited Isfahan twice, the second time in AH 286, i.e. AD 899). 

129 Ibn Khallikan, V, 289ff; Subki, Tabaqat, III, 478-483. 

130 Al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, Ta'rikh, V, 213ff; Ibn al-jawzl, Muntazam, VI, 148f (containing 
the story ofhis parents); Ibn ‘Asakir, II, lllff; SulamI, Tabaqat, 166-169. 

131 Ibn al-jawzl, Muntazam, VII, 152 (according to him, he wrote chiefly summaries based on 
the books of al-Shafi‘1; his deviations were noticeable in his poetry, in which there was an 
inclination towards the Shiites); Subki, Tabaqat, III, 320; Dhahabi, ‘Ibar, II, 162; Ibn 
al-Athlr, Lubdb, II, 261. 

132 Al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, Ta’rtkh, III, 215f; see ibid., n. 1 on p. 216. 

133 Kindi, 583; Tadmuri (BM Or 1284), 63b (who calls him: ‘Uthman b. Ja'far). 

134 Al-Khatlb al-Baghdadi, Ta’rtkh, XII, 70f; cf. Canard, translation ofal-§uli, 128, n. 7. 


332 



MUSLIM PERSONALITIES CA. 870-970 [SECS. 489-542] 


(the blind). HediedinRajab AH 324, that is February AD 936. 135 Isma‘11 b. 
‘Abd al-Wahid al-Raba‘i (after the Banu Rabfa) al-MaqdisI, Abu Hashim, 
was a contemporary of the aforementioned and lived in Ramla. In AH 321, 
that is, AD 933, he was head of the cadis in Egypt for two months, but 
after a paralytic stroke, he returned to Ramla and died there in AH 325, 
that is, AD 937. He was one of the confidants of the strong man of Egypt at 
that time, Abu Bakr Muhammad b. ‘All al-Madhara’i, and according to 
al-Kindl, the reason for his leaving Egypt was the uprising of the army 
against al-Madhara’i. Isma‘11 was even forced to remain in hiding for some 
time. 136 Muhammad b. Ja‘far, who is Abu Nu‘aym al-Hafiz al-Khara’itl 
al-Samiri, that is, a man of Samarra in Iraq, settled in Ramla. A few of the 
books he wrote have been preserved in manuscript, among these are i'tilal 
al-qulitb (‘hearts’ weakness’), about love and lovers; makarim al-akhlaq (‘the 
noble manners’) and masawTal-akhlaq (‘the bad manners’). It is said that he 
lived and died in Ramla, though some say Ascalon and others Jaffa. He 
died in Rabi‘ I AH 327, January AD 939. 137 ‘Abdallah b. Muhammad b. 
Tuwayt, a man of Ramla mentioned in Tabaranl was one of the scholars of 
the city at that time. 138 Abu Bakr Ahmad b. ‘Amr b. Jabir was a famous 
hafiz who settled in Ramla. His livelihood came from milling and he was 
hence called al-Tahhan. He died in AH 333, that is AD 945. 139 Learned men 
of Baghdad who had settled in Ramla in about AH 350 (AD 961) and 
taught there were Muhammad b. Ahmad b. ‘Absun and Ahmad b. Salih b. 
‘Umar b. Ishaq, known as Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. 140 

[526-530], In Ascalon, Hamdan b. Gharim b. Yanar (or: Nayar), Abu 
Hamid, was famous; he came there from Bukhara, from a village named 
Zandana (and was therefore also called al-Zandi). He died in Ramadan 
AH 280, that is November AD 893. 141 

During this period, the following were also active in Ascalon: Mu¬ 
hammad b. ‘Ubayd b. Adam, the grandson of the Adam b. Abi Iyas 

135 Jazarl, II, 77; Sam'ani, V, 268; Ibn al-Athir, Lubab, I, 402; Yaqut, Buldan, II, 515; cf. 
Khalidi, 124f; Musharraf, fol. 53a, mentions a scholar called Abu Bakr Muhammad b. 
Ahmad al-Nabulusi, who is possibly the same person. 

136 Subki, Tabaqdt, III, 222; Kindi, 484. 

137 Al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, Ta’rikh, II, 140f; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, V, 308; Ibn al-Jawzi, 
Muntazam, VI, 298f; Sam'ani, V, 75f; Ibn al-Athir, Lubab, I, 352; DhahabI, ‘Ibar, II, 209; 
Abu’l-Fida’, Mukhtasar, II, 86; cf. Brockelmanrt, GAL, S I, 250. 

138 Tabarani, Mu'jam, I, 220. 

139 DhahabI, ‘Ibar, II, 229; Safadi, al-Wdjt, VII, 270. 

140 Al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, Ta’rikh, I, 328f; Salih, b. ‘Umar, see ibid., IV, 205;Jazari, I, 62 
(No. 266). 

141 Ibn ‘Asakir, IV, 432; Ibn al-Athir, Lubab, I, 511, with a discussion on the by-name Zandl. 
Zandana, a village still existing today, some twenty-five kilometres north of Bukhara. 
See Le Strange, Lands, 462; see Yaqut, Buldan, II, 952, where the by-name derived from 
the name of this village is Zandani, or Zandaji (the famous weaves produced there were 
called by this name). 


333 



PALESTINE FROM THE ABBASIDS TO THE FATIMIDS 


mentioned above, who emigrated from Khurasan and settled in Asca- 
lon; 142 ‘Abdallah b. Muhammad b. Abl’l-Sari; 143 and Abu’l-'Abbas 
Muhammad b. Hasan b. Qutayba - his father’s brother was Bakkar b. 
Qutayba, who had been chief cadi in Egypt. 144 ‘Abd al-Jabbar b. Abi 
‘Amir al-Sihillini (in some sources: al-Sijillinl), from the village of Sihillm 
(according to Yaqut) in the district ( kiira ) of Ascalon. 145 

[531—542] Of the Islamic scholars in Acre during that period, I shall 
mention Nafis al-Rumi; 146 Muhammad b. Ibrahim b. Sariya; 147 Abu Bakr 
al-Khidr b. Muhammad b. Ghawth al-Tanukhi, who died in AH 325, that 
is AD 937; 148 Sa‘dun b. Suhayl; 149 and Ahmad b. ‘Abdallah al-Lihyani, 
who was said to have taught in Acre in AH 275, that is AD 888/9. 150 

Living in Gaza during that time were ‘Abdallah b. Wuhayb; 151 al- 
Husayn b. ‘All al-Naysaburi, who evidently came from Naysabur in 
Persia to study the teachings of Malik b. Anas with another Gazan, 
al-Hasan b. al-Faraj. 152 

In Caesarea, we find Ibrahim b. Mu'awiya, Abu Sufyan; he is men¬ 
tioned in the year AH 275, that is AD 888/9. 153 In ‘Aqlr (Akron) there lived 
Abu Ja'far Muhammad b. Ahmad b. Ibrahim; he evidently moved to 
Ramla afterwards, for he is called al-‘Aqari al-Ramli. 154 

‘Abd al-Rahman (Abu Muhammad) the son of Harun b. Sa‘Id b. al- 
Haytham, who has been mentioned above, was still living in Eilat and he 
died in Shawwal AH 278, that isJanuary/February AD 892. 155 In connec¬ 
tion with Hebron, Tadmuri mentions Muhammad b. Ahmad al-Najdi. 156 
Muhammad b. ‘Abdallah b. ‘Umayr al-Yafuni, is mentioned as living in 
Jaffa, in 900 or thereabout. 157 

142 Taiwan!, Mu'jam, II, 83; DhahabI, Mizdn, III, 679. 

143 Tabaranl, Mu'jam, I, 214. 

144 Tabaranl, Mu'jam, I, 44; Dhahabi, ‘Ibar, II, 147; on his father’s brother, see Kindi, 477ff. 

145 Tabaranl, Mu'jam, I, 249; Ibn al-Athlr, Lubab, I, 533f; Yaqut, Buldan, III, 46. Cf. Le 
Strange, Palestine, 538, who cites Yaqut, Sijillln, but did not notice Yaqut’s claim that the 
correct name is Sihillin. 

146 Tabaranl, Mu'jam, II, 161. 

147 Ibid., 44. 

148 Ibn ‘Asakir, V, 165. 

149 Tabaranl, Mu'jam, I, 168; Tabaranl met him in Acre and knew him personally. 

150 Ibid., 38. 

151 Ibid., 215. 

152 Subki, Tabaqat, III, 277. 

153 Al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, Miidih, I, 394. 

154 Ibn al-Athlr, Lubab, II, 145; Yaqut, Buldan, III, 697; cf. KhalidI, 169. 

155 Sam'ani, 411. 

156 Al-Tadmurl (BM Or 1284), 63a. 

157 Tabaranl, Mu'jam, II, 91; Ibn al-Athlr, Lubab, II, 303; Yaqut, Buldan, IV, 1003. 


334 



6 


The fatimid conquest: the war 

OF SIXTY YEARS AND OTHER 
EVENTS DURING THE ELEVENTH 
CENTURY 


Fatimid advance northwards (a) 

[543] It took the Fatimids more than two generations of rule in North 
Africa before they could succeed in taking the giant step towards Bagh¬ 
dad, which was still quite a distance. In 969, they managed to conquer 
Egypt. They had already tried unsuccessfully to do so a number of times, 
in 913-914, and again in 919-920, but they were unable to get a foothold in 
the land of the Nile and after each attempt they were forced to retreat after 
much blood was shed. This time they prepared the invasion of Egypt 
meticulously, under the command of Caliph al-Mu‘izz on the basis of the 
advice and plans drawn up by Ya'qub ibn Killis, a Jew of Baghdad, who 
had become the chief adviser to the Fatimid caliph. 

In April 968, as I have mentioned, the black Kafur, regent of Egypt, died 
and Abu’l-Fawaris Ahmad b. ‘All the Ikhshldid was declared ruler of 
Egypt at the age of eleven. The year before, the Nile had failed to rise 
sufficiently and there was starvation in the land, accompanied by terrible 
epidemics. It was said that more than 600,000 souls died in Fustat and its 
environs and that many of its inhabitants left the area. 1 

[544] The central figure in Egypt at that time was Abu‘l-Fadl Ja‘far b. 
Fadl ibn Furat, or Ibn Hinzaba, as I mentioned earlier. We have seen that he 
was married to the daughter of the Ikhshid and was the strongest sup¬ 
porter of this dynasty. At that time, the army wished to place at the helm 

1 See Lane-Poole, Hist., 89, lOOff; see further details in the article Fatimids in EP (by M. 
Canard). Cf. the article by Lev, Asian and African Studies (Haifa), 14:165, 1980. On the 
matter of the Nile and the drought, see Qalqashandi, Ma’athir, 305; wheat sold for a dinar 
and a half per wayba, a rati of bread for two dirhams, an egg for a dirham and a third. 


335 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


of government, Hasan b. ‘Ubaydallah, the Ikhshidid, governor of Ramla 
(the cousin of Abu’l-Fawaris Ahmad). In view of the threat to Abu’l- 
Fawaris’ status and to his own situation as well, Ibn Hinzaba began a 
struggle against Hasan which resulted in complete anarchy amongst the 
ruling circles. Hasan the Ikhshidid arrived from Ramla, placed Ibn Hin¬ 
zaba in custody, confiscated his property and tortured him, but eventually 
released him and returned to Ramla, apparently because of the dangerous 
situation that was developing in Palestine. The Qarmatls were pressing 
there, while on the horizon there were also indications of threats from the 
Byzantines. He left for Ramla on the 22nd (or 24th) of February 969. 
However, it seems that prior to this, he managed to send a letter to the 
Fatimid caliph, al-Mu‘izz, to invite him to come to Egypt to restore order. 
On 5 August 969, the Fatimid army entered Fustat after overcoming some 
very slight resistance. 2 

[545] Less than a year later, at the beginning of summer of 970, the 
Fatimid army under Ja‘far ibn al-Fallah, turned towards Palestine. On 
Rajab AH 359 (24 May AD 970), it took Ramla. Theoretically, this was the 
outset of about a century of Fatimid rule in Palestine. In fact, the Fatimids 
were compelled to join battle with not a few of the enemies who stood in 
their way: the Arabs, led by the Banu Tayy’, who in turn were headed by 
the Banu’l-Jarrah family; the Qarmatls; a Turkish army under the com¬ 
mand of Alptakln, who was based in Damascus; Arab tribes in Syria with 
the Banu Hamdan at their head; and in the background, the Byzantines 
were lurking, and about to continue their attempts to spearhead south¬ 
ward to Jerusalem. This war was waged in several stages and the enemies 
changed, but all in all, it was an almost unceasing war which destroyed 
Palestine, and especially its Jewish population, even before the Crusaders’ 
eventuality. 

The Fatimid army invaded Palestine some half a year after Ramla 
underwent a siege of thirty days imposed by the Qarmatls, in Dhu’l-Hijja 
AH 358 (October/November 969 AD). The might of the Ikhshldids was 
weakened and the Fatimids knew how to take advantage of this fact. The 
cries for help of Hasan, the Ikhshidid governor of Ramla, were cries in the 
wilderness and no one came to his assistance - neither the people of 
Damascus nor al-Sinajl, governor ofjerusalem. As to the fate of Hasan the 
Ikhshidid, there are conflicting versions. According to Ibn al-Dawadari, 
he and many of his men were killed during the conquest. Other sources 
have it that the Fatimid commander sent him to Egypt, together with 
other members of his family who were in Ramla at the time. In Egypt, 
they were kept in jail for some time and afterwards taken to the Maghrib to 

2 See n. 96 above; Ibn al-Dawadari, 120; Ibn Khallikan, 1,346; cf. Bianquis, Hhh. is/., 11(1972), 
62ff; Lane Poole, Hist ., 102ff. 


336 



FATIMID ADVANCE NORTHWARDS (A) (SECS. 543-546] 

Caliph al-Mu‘izz, who had them released. Ja‘far ibn al-Fallah continued 
his expedition and turned towards Tiberias, where Fatik was then govern¬ 
ing in the service of the Ikhshidids. The control of the Bashan and Hawran 
regions was in the hands of Arabs of the Banu ‘Uqayl, based on an 
agreement they had had with Kafur. Two other tribes, the Banu Murra 
and the Banu Fazara, agreed to collaborate with the Fatimid army and help 
in the conquest of Tiberias. A unit of Fatimid soldiers (Berbers, for the 
Fatimid army was made up of these tribesmen then), ‘the westerners’ 
( maghdriba , as they are called in the sources) caught Fatik and he was 
executed while imagining that they were about to release him. The Ber¬ 
bers plundered Tiberias. Ja‘far ibn Fallah ordered that a citadel be built 
there for him, on the bridge over the Sea of Galilee (?). The Fatimid army 
could then advance northward without hindrance, and the Banu ‘Uqayl, 
faithful to the Hamdanids, fled from the army as far as Hims. 3 

[546] There is no doubt that this first expedition of the Fatimids into 
Palestinian and Syrian territory was for them the first step in the realisation 
of a dream: that of the conquest of the entire Muslim world. There is no 
need to display petty pedantry and look for short-term considerations in 
their decision to drive northward immediately after the conquest of 
Egypt. Although starvation in Egypt was extreme at the time of the 
Fatimid conquest and during the following year as well, nevertheless there 
is no foundation to Bianquis’ assumption that the major motive for 
sending the army northwards was essentially materialistic — the need to 
relieve the difficult problem of feeding an army whose numbers were 
myriad and which placed a heavy burden on the treasury. 4 

Fatimid retreat (a) 

[547] The Fatimids behaved with a great deal of self-confidence. The 

3 See Yahya ibn SaTd (PO), 141; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, VII, 591, with details on the fate of 
Ramla after the conquest and on the conquest of Damascus; Ibn Taghri Bardi, IV, 26; Ibn 
Khaldun, ‘ Ibar , IV, 100; Ibn Khallikan, I, 361; Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, XI, 267; Abu’l-Fida’, 
Mukhtasar, II, 109; Ibn al-Dawadari, from p. 120; on p. 125 he mentions the citadel, which 
according to him was near the jisr (bridge of) al-sira, and it seems that this last word is a 
scribe’s error for buhayra, the lake that is buhayrat Tabariyya, the Sea of Galilee; contrary to 
some other sources Maqrizi, ltti'az, I. 120, and Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, I, 120, give the date of 
Ramla’s conquest as 18 Muharram 359,1 December 969; Maqrizilinks it to a battle with the 
Qarmatls, see also what he says on pp. 122f; but it seems that this date should refer to the 
Qarmatls’ siege on Ramla, and one should prefer the later date, contrary to the opinion of 
Madelung, Der Islam, 34(1959), 56f, who relies also on ‘uyun al-akhbar of Idris b. al-Hasan, 
which was available to him in manuscript. As to Tiberias, apart from al-Dawadari, all the 
sources insist that there was no battle there but that it surrendered willingly. See also the 
article Djawhar al Sikilli in BP (by H. Mones), 

4 Bianquis, Atm. isl, 11(1972), 79f; he mentions two additional motives; the news about the 
Qarmatls’ victorious attack on Ramla and its ruler, al-Hasan b. ‘Ubaydallah; the internal 
conditions in Egypt, where the followers of the Ikhshidids began to renew their activities. 


337 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


Berber units which formed the major part of the army at the time were 
remarkably courageous, but their behaviour was uncontrolled and cruel. 
Not only the civilian population but even the Arab tribes in the north were 
fearful of the hard hand of the maghariba, and preferred the Qarmatls, the 
greatest enemies of the Fatimids. If the Qarmatls were wise enough to 
establish a stable alliance with the Arab tribes, they would have undoubt¬ 
edly succeeded in preventing the Fatimid domination of Palestine and 
Syria and in that way, endanger their rule in Egypt as well. But as we shall 
see later on, this alliance lasted but a short spell. 

As mentioned, the Banu ‘Uqayl fled from the Fatimid army. At first, 
they intended to come to terms with the Fatimids. A delegation of their 
dignitaries even came from Damascus to Tiberias in order to meet the 
Fatimid commander, Ja‘far ibn al-Fallah, but after some Fatimid soldiers 
attacked and robbed them of everything they bore with them, they 
became angry and returned to Damascus, whence they had soon to flee 
again. Damascus was the scene of three days of severe battles and much 
bloodshed, and the city fell in mid-October, 970. Ja‘far ibn al-Fallah 
energetically began to fortify his position there, reorganised his lines of 
defence, stationed his troops in the city and even built himself a citadel 
within the city. Shortly after taking Damascus, the Fatimids continued to 
overrun all of Syria and even tried to take Antioch from the Byzantines. 
They placed the city under siege, but were forced to withdraw, either as a 
result of the Byzantines’ strength or because of the dangers threatening 
them from other quarters. 5 

[548] At this stage, the Fatimids’ chief enemies were the Qarmatls, led 

5 Ibn al-Dawadarl, 126f: the battle for Damascus occurred on 8-10 Dhu’l-Hijja (the 10th of 
Dhu’l-Hijja is ‘Id al-adha), i.e. 14-16 October AD 970. The expedition to Antioch, see 
Cedrenus (Bonn), II, 383f; MaqrizI, Itti'az, I, 126; Ibn al-Dawadarl, 132f; cf. Walker, 
Byzantion, 42(1972), 431ff; the tradition he cites there from ‘uyiin al-akhbar of Idris ibn 
al-Hasan ‘Imad al-DIn (a Yemenite who died in AH 872, or AD 1468), according to which 
Akhu Muslim headed the expedition to Antioch, is not credible, for Akhu Muslim was 
then an ally of the Qarmatls and the enemy of the Fatimids for a number of years, and did 
not leave the latter after this campaign, as Walker contends. One should add that Antioch 
had a special significance for the Fatimids, and their ambition to conquer it evidently 
contributed to the diffusion of Isma'IlI traditions about it. These traditions are ascribed to 
the Palestinian retainer of the Prophet, Tamlm al-Dari, and to some of the first ‘Alid imams. 
According to these traditions, it is in Antioch where the relics of the broken tablets of the 
ten commandments, Moses’ rod. King Solomon’s table and chair (the minbar) are all to be 
found; it is fated to be conquered by someone of the Prophet’s lineage (that is, a Fatimid), 
and therejews, Christians and Muslims will gather around him and everyone will worship 
God in his own way. See Ivanow, Ismaili Tradition , 120ff. Tamim al-Dari had to say on 
Antioch: ‘I have not seen in Byzantium a city like the one called Antakiya, nor a city in 
which there is more rain.’ To which the Prophet replies: ‘for therein is the tawrah and 
Moses’ rod, and pieces of the broken tablets, and the table ofSolomon, the son ofDarid, in 
one of its caves; every cloud that somehow passes over it must release the blessing it bears 
within the valley; and not many days or nights shall pass and a man of my blood will settle 
there, his name as my name and the name of his father as my father, his image as my image, 


338 



FATIMID RETREAT (A) [SECS. 547-548] 

by Abu ‘All al-Hasan al-A‘sam b. Ahmad b. Bahrain. It was he who 
radically changed the policy of the sect, which was that of collaboration 
with the Fatimids as long as the latter were only governing in the west. But 
now that the Fatimids had conquered Egypt and invaded Palestine and 
Syria, they were opposed by the Qarmatls, who formed an alliance with 
the Banu ‘Uqayl. These allies achieved their first victory in the month of 
Dhu ’1-Qa‘da AH 360, beginning on the 25th of August AD 971, when 
they managed to take Damascus from the Fatimids. The Qarmatls 
wrought havoc in the city. Ja‘far ibn al-Fallah, the Fatimid commander, 
was killed in battle during the conquest. The anti-Fatimid alliance was 
given much help by the de facto ruler of Baghdad, Bakhtiyar, as well as by 
the Hamdanid ruler, Abu Taghlib. They also had at their side elements 
who were faithful supporters of the Ikhshldids (mainly Turks). 

After taking Damascus, the Qarmatls turned southwards with the 
intention of conquering Ramla. Their justification was that the Fatimids 
had not paid them the annual tax of 300,000 dinars promised them by the 
former Ikhshldid governor of Ramla. The Qarmatls then took all of 
Palestine until they reached Ramla, while the Fatimid army withdrew to 
Jaffa and dug themselves in there. But in the midst of the raging war, the 
supreme Fatimid commander, Jawhar, sent a new governor to Ramla, 
namely Sa‘ada b. Hiyan, in Shawwal of the year AH 360, that is August 
AD 971 (according to Maqrizl). Shortly afterwards, on Tuesday, the 11th 
of Dhu’l-Qa‘da AH 360, the 5th of September 971, Ramla fell to the 
Qarmatls. They ravaged the city. Afterwards the Qarmatls placed Jaffa 
under siege, while the major part of their army turned towards Egypt and 
conquered large stretches of land there until the Fatimid commander 
Jawhar warded off their invasion near Fustat, at the end of December 971. 

From that point onward, the Qarmatls established Ramla as their chief 
base and established their winter quarters there. In the meantime, there 
were battles between the navies of the Qarmatls and the Fatimids. The 
Qarmatls took thirteen of the fifteen ships laden with men and supplies 
sent by Jawhar in aid of his besieged men injaffa, but Jawhar succeeded in 
lifting the siege on the port by hurling flasks of oil onto the Qarmatls’ ships 
and setting them on fire. 

Fatimid advance northwards (b) 

The governor of Ramla on behalf of the Arab-Qarmati alliance was a 
man of the Banu ‘Uqayl, Zalim ibn Mawhub (in some sources, ibn 

his nature as my nature, he will fill the world with truth and justice instead of oppression 
and tyranny’. The date of the conception of this tradition, which belonged to Fatimid 
propaganda, was perhaps the first half of the tenth century, the period of the second 
Fatimid caliph, al-Qa’im, that is Muhammad b. ‘Abdallah (‘Ubaydallah). See al-Khatib 


339 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


Marhub, which is evidently a distortion). He stood at the head of the 
forces which the tribal alliance placed at the disposal of the war against the 
Fatimids. The major Qarmatl forces were aligned alongside them, under 
the command of Abu’l-Munajja ‘Abdallah b. ‘All. The supreme com¬ 
mander of this anti-Fatimid camp was Akhu Muslim, whom we already 
know. Opposing them in Jaffa and the south of Palestine, stood the 
Fatimid army, numbering some 11,000 soldiers, under the command of 
the former governor of Ramla, Sa‘ada ibn Hiyan. The lack of accord 
between the partners to the enemy alliance acted in their favour. Acute 
differences occurred between the allies over the distribution of the income 
from taxes ( kharaj ), for the Qarmatl, Abu’l-Munajja, demanded the 
money for himself. His men took captive the leader of the Banu ‘Uqayl, 
Zalim b. Mawhub, but he managed to escape and fled to the region of the 
Euphrates, and his men withdrew from the scene. From then on, the 
anti-Fatimid alliance disintegrated. The Qarmatis naturally understood 
that they could not hold their stand on their own. They lifted the siege on 
Jaffa, abandoned Ramla as well, and retreated northward to Damascus. 
There are no exact details in the sources on this last move but it can be 
speculated upon in light of the circumstances and from what occurred 
afterwards. It seems that the Arabs of the north temporarily went over to 
the opposing side and supported the Fatimids, who returned and seized 
Palestine and even part of southern Syria, including Damascus, with the 
help of the Banu “Uqayl, evidently not before the summer of 973. The 
reason for assuming this date is that gold dinars (weighing 3.31 grams) 
were minted by the Qarmatis in Palestine, in the years AH 360-362 (362 
ended on the 12th October AD 973). These coins bear the name of 
al-Hasan ibn Ahmad (who is al-Hasan al-A‘sam), and they were minted 
on behalf of ‘our masters, the heads’ ( al-sada al-ru’asa’), the Qarmatis’ 
council, with the inscription bi-JUastin. 6 


Ya'qub ibn Killis 

[549] The Fatimids felt that their hold on Palestine and Syria was on the 
wane and that a new attack on these territories was imminent, in which 

al-Baghdadl, Ta’rtkh, IX, 471. As to Futuh, who according to the aforementioned Arab 
sources led the expedition to Antioch, he is not mentioned in any other sources of the 
period, and the name may be a distortion of Abu’l-Futuh, who was the Jew Fadl b. Salih, 
and who shall be mentioned below. 

6 SeeYahyaibnSaTd, 143; Ibn‘Asakir, IV, 148ff;Ibnal-‘AdIm, Zubda, 1,104; Ibn Dawadarl, 
132f; MaqrizI, Itti'dz, I, 128, 188f; AbuT-Fida’, Mukhtasar II, 111 f. Ibn Kathlr, Biddya, XI, 
269; Ibn Taghrl Bardi, IV, 62; Ibn Khaldun, 'Ibar, IV, 104; cf. Madelung, Der Islam, 
34(1959), 35f; the article al-Hasan al-A‘sam (by M. Canard) in EP. On Abu Taghlib, 
whom we shall encounter below, see details in Canard’s article, Hamdanids, his full name: 
Abu Taghlib Fadlallah b. al-Hasan: at that time, he was the leader of the Hamdanids based 


340 



YA'QIJB IBN KI LL1S [ SEC. 5491 

Egypt would also be threatened. Apparently, it was this realisation that 
prompted the Fatimid caliph al-Mu‘izz to move his seat from Qayrawan in 
the Maghrib to Egypt, in May 973. Some five months later, in Muharram 
of the year AH 363, that is October AD 973, when the Fatimids had just 
renewed their dominion of Palestine and Syria, he appointed the con¬ 
verted Jew Abu’l-Faraj Ya'qub b. Yusuf b. Ibrahim ibn Killis to take 
charge of internal affairs in Egypt and also to deal with the collection of 
taxes and with various properties. Ibn Killis was the son ofajewish family 
from Baghdad, who emigrated to Palestine, evidently in ca. 940, when the 
desertion of a large wave of Iraqijews occurred. He was born in Baghdad 
in AH 318 (AD 930), and it is known that his family lived at the time near 
the ‘Silk Gate’ (bab al-qazz). Some of the sources relate him to Aaron b. 
‘Amram, which in effect means a family of priestly descent. When the 
family lived in Ramla and Ya'qub was growing up, he began to engage in 
trade and became involved in improprieties, the nature of which are not 
very clear. During Kaffir’s time, when Ya'qub was in his thirties, he 
moved to Egypt and achieved considerable success owing to his talents in 
the field of economics and management, and he was taken into the service 
of Kafur. According to Ibn al-Sayrafi, he began his rise with the knowl¬ 
edge that hidden in the house of a certain Ibn al-Baladi in Ramla was a 
hoard of 30,000 dinars. After the death of the owner of the house, Ibn 
Killis informed Kafur of this but mentioned only 20,000 dinars. When 
they found 30,000 dinars after digging for the treasure, Ibn Killis told 
Kafur of his finding, and the latter was impressed by his honesty. After¬ 
wards he found another treasure, that of a Jew who died in al-Farama, 
hidden in loads of flax which he had left behind. The flax was sold and the 
treasure handed over to Kafur. It was said that Ya'qub converted to Islam 
on Monday, 18 Sha'ban AH 356 (30 July AD 967). He left Egypt because 
of court intrigues after the death of Kafur and went over to the Fatimids. 
He was accepted to serve al-Mu‘izz in Qayrawan and he is credited with 
both the initiative and the planning and preparation for the campaign 
which led to the conquest of Egypt. His status in the Fatimid political 
and administrative system is Undoubtedly one of the signs of the strong 
links between the Fatimid rulers and the circles of Jewish financiers, 
experts in financial matters and international commerce, who then con¬ 
verged on Qayrawan. Of his many retainers, the sources speak of‘Asluj b. 
al-Hasan, who was his administrative aide, and the Jewish commander 
and statesman Abu’ 1-Futuh Fadl b. Salih. With the transfer of the Fatimid 

in Mosul; afterwards, in 978, he was forced to flee from there by Bakhtiyar, the Buwayhid 

ruler of Baghdad, and we shall find him involved in events in Palestine; see also the article 

Bakhtiyar (by C. Cahen) in EP. On the coins, see: Nassar, QDAP, 13(1948), 125f; 

Scanlon, BIFAO, 59(1960), 37-41, 47f; Mitchell, INJ , 3(1965/6), 47f. 


341 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


caliphate’s capital from Qayrawan to al-Qahira, Ya’qub ibn Killis found 
himself in the entourage of al-Mu‘izz, and from 976, after his death, he 
continued to serve his son al-‘AzIz, from whom he received the rank of 
wazir. He lived in al-Qahira in his own house, in which other wazirs 
subsequently lived until the time of Badr al-JamalT (the seventies of the 
eleventh century; the house was centrally located, opposite the gate to the 
Zuwayla quarter, and afterwards became the centre of the silk trade and 
was known by the name dar al-dtbaj [house of silk], and in the days of the 
Ayyubids became a madrasa). 

Ibn Killis is credited with having written a Book of Laws, on com¬ 
mission from al-‘AzIz, a book which the latter decided was obligatory 
reading for the Fatimid legal system, but the Muslim scholars of the law 
resented it. He was also said to have supported scholars and religious 
officials, and he managed to get regular annuities ( rizq) for them from 
al-‘Aziz. He also built a special house for them, which at that time housed 
thirty-seven of these people, close to the al-Azhar mosque. Of Ya’qub ibn 
Killis’ family, there is mention of his brother Sahl, who is said to have been 
executed in AH 394 (AD 1004), on al-Hakim’s orders; his Turkish son-in- 
law Yarukhtakln and his brother-in-law (his wife’s brother) Rashiq al- 
‘Azizi, were both commanders in the Fatimid army. 7 


Fatimid retreat (b) 

[550] The Fatimids’ renewed hold over Palestine and Syria did not last 
long. The Qarmatis recovered their strength and organised their forces 
anew. Most of these were then in Bahrayn in al-Ahsa (the fortress of 
al-Ahsa, as opposed to al-Ahsa, or al-Hasa, in the nearby eastern coastal 
region of the Arabian peninsula). Their leader al-Hasan al-A‘sam, was 
living there. They even renewed their alliance with the Arab tribes and 
they were soon to find a new ally of immense power, the Turkish com¬ 
mander Alptakin. This tri-fold alliance was soon to endanger the Fatimids’ 
position in the area again. 

We have no details about the renewed seizure of southern Syria and 

7 Yahya ibn SaTd, 225f; Ibn Khallikan, VII, 27-34; SuyutI, Muhafan, I. 601; al-Quda‘1, fol. 
108b; Ibn Muyassar, 45; Abu Shuja', 185; DhahabI, Duwal, I, 180; Yafi'i, II, 250f; Ibn 
al-Sayrafi, 14—23; MaqrizI, Itti'az, II, 51 (Sahl is mentioned here); idem, Khitat, II, 178, 327, 
341, 347 (on the house oflbn Killis); Sawlrus, II (2), 98f; Qalqashandl, Subh, III, 353, 363 
(on his house and the house for the Muslim scholars); a Syriac source, the history of 
Abraham the Syrian, contains a story about a religious dispute in the presence of al-Mu‘izz, 
Ya'qub ibn Killis (in the source, Ibn Khillis) and his good friend, Musa, the Jew who 
became rich in his company, see: Leroy, ROC, 4(1909), 392f; see the summary of infor¬ 
mation on Ya'qub ibn Killis, according to part of the aforementioned sources: Fischel, 
Jews, 44-68, and in the article of Lev, Der Islam, 58:237, 1981. 


342 



FATIMID RETREAT (B) [SEC. 550] 


Palestine by the Qarmatis. In the spring of 973, the Fatimids were still 
ruling in Syria, as is proven by the fact that in Rajab AH 362 (April AD 
973), they dismissed Ahmad b. Musawwir from his post as governor of 
Damascus. He moved to Tiberias, where he died. In the spring of AH 363, 
that is, AD 974, the Qarmatls already attacked Egypt, together with the 
Bedouin of Palestine, the Ikhshidid followers who were still prepared to 
fight, and those who had been loyal followers of Kafiir (al-kafiriym). 


Fatimid advance northwards (c) 

Al-Mu‘izz was in an inferior position in relation to the invading force. 
He then resorted to cunning: promising Hassan ibn al-Jarrah (the son of 
al-Mufarrij b. Daghfal, father of the Banu Jarrah family and their leader at 
that time; the sources refer to him as ‘commander of the Bedouin’, amir 
al-‘arab) 100,000 dinars to betray his allies and withdraw in the face of the 
Egyptian army. The deal was made and the Arabs withdrew as promised, 
which led to the collapse of the Qarmati offensive. This was a successful 
deception on the part of al-Mu‘izz, for the money was sent to Hassan 
packed in pouches, in which the coins at the top were genuine dinars 
whereas underneath there was base metal. 10,000 Maghribi horsemen 
under the command of Abu Mahmud Ibrahim b. Ja‘far b. al-Fallah, 
pursued the Arabs and cut off their supply routes. The Fatimids once again 
returned and took over Palestine and Syria even before the end of 974. 


Fatimid retreat (c) 

When they were obliged to retreat, the Qarmatls turned their attention 
to an alliance with the Turk Alptakin (his name is frequently distorted, as 
Aftakin, Haftakin). He had been a freedman of the Baghdadi ruler ‘Izz 
al-Dawla Bakhtiyar. The Turks in the latter’s army quarrelled with him 
after he rose to power in Baghdad in 967 and their commander, Alptakin, 
then invaded Syria and made Hims his base. On becoming an ally of the 
Qarmatis, his first act was to attack the Palestinian coast, towards the end 
of the winter of 975. He opened his attack with a siege on Sidon, where a 
large force of Fatimid soldiers was concentrated under the command of 
Ibn Shaykh, who had been appointed by al-Mu‘izz. Along with the 
Fatimids in the city, there were Arabs of the Banu ‘Uqayl together with 
their leader Zalim b. Mawhub, who still collaborated with the Fatimids. 
Alptakin took Sidon by storm and there was much slaughter, with some 
4,000 fatalities. The remnants of the Fatimid army fled to Tyre, but 
Alptakin did not attack this city, making a detour and directing part of his 
army southward, with the intention of taking Acre, and with another 


343 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


part of the army, drove toward Tiberias, which fell after much blood was 
shed and the city laid open to pillage and plunder. From Tiberias, Alptakin 
led his army towards Damascus. The Fatimid commander of Damascus, 
Riyan, escaped with his life; Alptakin entered the city and was received 
enthusiastically by the Sunni Muslim part of the population, who pledged 
their allegiance to him. The conquest of Damascus evidently took place in 
April 975, and it is said that in Sha‘ban of the year 364 (beginning on 16 
April AD 975), Alptakin introduced the Abbasid da'wa (the prayer for the 
Abbasid ruler said at the start of the khutba, the sermon), mentioning the 
name of the Abbasid caliph al-Ta’i‘ instead of that of the Fatimid caliph. 
The efforts of the Fatimid caliph al-Mu‘izz to come to an agreement with 
Alptakin were in vain. The situation in Damascus was extremely difficult 
at the time of the conquest, for there were Fatimid soldiers there as well as 
Arabs of the Banu ‘Uqayl, and these two factions were at one another’s 
throats all the time; the Arabs collaborated with the people of the city 
against the Fatimid garrison. Now the Banu ‘Uqayl hastily went over to 
Alptakln’s side. One of the leaders of the tribe, Shibl ibn Ma‘ruf, received 
Tiberias into his charge, with Alptakln’s blessing. The latter’s attitude 
towards the Arabs was one of familiarity and toughness and he succeeded 
in restraining them and extending his authority over them at the same 
time. Nevertheless, some of the Fatimid army units managed to reorgan¬ 
ise themselves and overrun Tiberias, under Abu Mahmud Ibrahim b. 
Ja‘far b. al-Fallah. The continuation of this drama and the retreat of the 
Fatimids (for the third time), is connected with events coming from a 
completely unexpected direction - the invasion of the Byzantines. 


Renewal of the Byzantine offensive 

If we are to believe Bar Hebraeus, the renewed Byzantine offensive 
against the Muslims was at the outset in the direction of Mesopotamia. 
According to him they conquered the city of Nisibis in the year AH 362, 
that is, AD 972. An important source of information on the Byzantine 
moves on the western side of the front is the letter of the emperor John 
Tzimisces to Ashot, king of the Armenians, which has been preserved in 
the chronicle of Matthew of Edessa. It was said that John Tzimisces was 
also an Armenian, and if this is actually the case, we have an additional 
explanation for the letter, which is long and in great detail. The emperor at 
first depicts his advance, in 975, from Hims southward through Ba‘la- 
bakk. The description of his arrival in the neighbourhood of Damascus is 
especially interesting. The city bestowed precious gifts on him so that he 
should not destroy it and at the bequest of the townspeople in their 
surrender agreement, he appointed a Turkish commander as its governor, 


344 



RENEWAL OF THE BYZANTINE OFFENSIVE [SECS. 550-551] 


a man of Baghdad who had converted to Christianity (!). With this 
description in mind, we shall presently see what the Muslim sources say 
about it. Hand-in-hand with the Byzantine advance towards Damascus, 
while Alptakin was preparing to fight, he was pinned down by the Fatimid 
danger looming from the direction of Tiberias. There, Abu Mahmud 
Ibrahim b. Ja'far was establishing his base while his enemies, the Banu 
‘Uqayl, were dominating the area and raiding the towns. Abu Mahmud 
sent a Fatimid force of some two thousand men from Tiberias to attack 
Damascus. At their head, he placed his nephew, Jaysh ibn Samsama. Near 
Subayna (a pair of villages some eight kilometres south of Damascus) this 
Fatimid army encountered the Banu ‘Uqayl, with Shibl b. Ma‘ruf at their 
head. The Fatimid force was routed, Jaysh was taken captive and most of 
his men were killed, and the remainder were taken as prisoners. Shibl 
handed Jaysh over to Alptakin. The latter was busy at that moment 
negotiating with the Byzantine emperor, who was staying in ‘Ayn al-Jarr 
(which is Anjar today, south of the Litani). The emperor demanded an 
enormous sum of money. Alptakin paid him the money and also gave him 
Jaysh the captive (and evidently other Fatimid captives he had with him; 
‘Africans’, as the emperor says in his letter). 

It is especially worth noting the report of the Damascene chronicler Ibn 
al-Qalanisi: John Tzimisces (called in the distorted variation, Ibn al- 
Shamashqiq) conquered Hims and Ba'labakk and turned towards Da¬ 
mascus. Alptakin and the people of the city decided to forestall the 
impending danger by agreeing to pay the emperor what he demanded, a 
total of 100,000 dirhams. The emperor met with Alptakin, and was 
impressed with his horsemanship, while Alptakin and the townsmen 
showered him with gifts — among them twenty choice steeds. Hence, the 
two sources are in complete accord, except that Ibn al-Qalanisi does not 
mention the conversion of the ‘Turkish commander’, that is Alptakin, to 
Christianity, which was certainly the emperor’s own invention. Return¬ 
ing to the emperor’s letter: he had similar successes, he writes, in Tiberias, 
in Nazareth, and on Mount Tabor. Messengers came to him from Ramla 
and Jerusalem, asking him to appoint governors over them and promising 
to pay him taxes.He also appointed a governor to Beniata, which is 
Decapolis (!), Gennesareth and Acre. Caesarea also succumbed. He took 
captive a thousand ‘Africans’. He liberated all of Phoenicia, Palestine and 
Syria from Muslim tyranny. But it appears that he did not turn towards 
Jerusalem, for ‘the damnable Africans [that is, the Fatimid army] [fortified 
themselves] in the fortresses along the coast’. While in Ibn Qalanisi: from 
Damascus, the emperor continued to advance northward along the 
Phoenician coast: Sidon, Beirut, Jubayl, Tripoli, until he was forced to 
return north because of internal troubles in Byzantium. Here there is an 


345 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


essential difference bteween the two sources, although there remains a 
central element in common: that is the fact that collaboration between the 
Byzantines, Alptakin and his allies, the Qarmatls and the Arabs, was 
achieved, and the emperor was evidently eager to participate in a war 
against the Fatimids, and, as his letter indicates, was even ready to start it. 
From now on, the emperor considered Alptakin a kind of tool, as were 
certainly the Qarmatls and the Arabs in his opinion. It is not surprising 
therefore that he enumerates in his letters the cities of Palestine, Tiberias 
and others, as having allegedly fallen into his hands. This was not vain 
boasting; Alptakin and his allies had really seized these cities. We know 
that Shibl the ‘Uqayll seized Tiberias again, after ousting the few Fatimids 
who were left there together with their commander Abu Mahmud Ibra¬ 
him b. Ja'far. They withdrew to Ramla and the Arabs pursued them and 
attacked and annihilated them near Jerusalem. A group of Fatimids taken 
captive were sent to Damascus, where they were led through the streets of 
the city tied to camels and afterwards decapitated. After these humiliating 
defeats, Abu Mahmud arrived in Ramla with the remnants of his army and 
there they stayed for the time being. 8 

8 See the article Plasa (by F. S. Vidal) in BP. The deposal of the governor of Damascus: Ibn 
‘Asakir, II, 88f; Thabit b. Sinan, 65f; Ibn al-Dawadarl, 176 (according to him these events 
took place in 365, i.e. 976); Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, VIII, 656ff; Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, XI, 280f; 
Ibn Khaldun, ‘Ibar, IV, 108 (he also places the beginning of AlptakJn’s expedition later, 
after the death of al-Mu‘izz, that is in 976). Abu’l-Fida’, Mukhtasar , II, 115; Maqrizl, 
Muqaffa, 195; idem, Khitat, II, 413 (a short and confused survey); idem, Itti'dz, I, 208ff, 
where we find a more extended version of what occurred in the north in 975; there seems to 
have been a kind of intermediary stage between Fatimid rule in Damascus and its conquest 
by Alptakin, when the city was actually governed by the Qarmatls and their allies, under 
the command of the Qarmati Abiil-Hija b. Munajja. As the Qarmatls were in financial 
straits, they did not pay their soldiers their due, so the latter joined forces with the Banu 
‘Uqayl against the Qarmati leadership and handed over their power in the city to the 
Fatimid Abu Mahmud. At the end of AH 363, or September AD 974, news reached Egypt 
that Damascus was again in the hands of Abu Mahmud. Further, 211-214, Maqrizi has 
additional information on the internal deterioration in Damascus and the conflict between 
the Banu ‘Uqayl and the Fatimid army, which I have mentioned above. The temporary 
success of the Qarmatls in 974 led al-Mu‘izz to transfer Abu Mahmud and appoint in his 
stead as governor of Damascus, Riyan, the governor of Tripoli. As we have seen, a short 
while afterwards, Alptakin ousted Riyan from Damascus. Ibn al-QalanisI, 12ff (see there 
on p. 25 on the family ties between Jaysh and Abu Mahmud); Ibn al-Dawadarl, 171f; see 
further: Bar Hebraeus (Bedjan), 192; (Budge) 173; see more references mentioned in 
connection with the first Byzantine expedition, above n. 97, and the reference therein to 
Matthew of Edessa (the letter ofTzimisces); this can also be read in RHC (Arm.), I, 12-20; 
see there, pp. 5, 130, on the Armenian origin ofjohn Tzimisces. Only one source, Michael 
the Syrian, IV, 553 (= III, 123, the translation), claims that the Byzantines did take 
Jerusalem then: ‘and the Greeks became rulers at that time of Antioch, and of Palestine and 
Jerusalem'; Starr, Atchiv Orientalni, 8(1936), 91-95 has already proven that this is not to be 
believed; see the commentary on the letter to Ashot: Schlumberger, L’epopee byzantine, II, 
282ff; Walker, Byzantion 47(1977), 313-324, and additional references in Walker, ibid.; he 
ignores the aforementioned article by Starr, and tries to explain that the details in the letter 
stem from exaggeration and boasting, either by the emperor himself, or of whoever 


346 



RENEWAL OF THE BYZANTINE OFFENSIVE [SECS. 550-551] 


[551] Evidently it was the Byzantines’ aspiration to rid Jerusalem of the 
Jews, for in doing so, they would be turning the wheels of time back to the 
days preceding the Muslim conquest. One can also assume that the Chris¬ 
tian leaders in Jerusalem in particular, were very active in this matter. And 
although the Byzantines did not succeed in reaching Jerusalem, as told, it 
seems that they were intent on evicting the Jews with the help of their 
connections with the Arab tribes, Alptakln’s allies. Explicit evidence of 
this has been preserved in the writings of two Karaite commentators who 
lived in Jerusalem at the time: Salmon b. Yeruhim and Yefet b. ‘All. The 
former writes in this fashion in his commentary on Psalms, ch. xxx: ‘and 
even now the “uncircumcised” beat us in order to oust us from Jerusalem 
by force, and separate us from the city’; and in his commentary on the 
Book of Ecclesiastes, ix:6: ‘and after all this, they want to evict us from 
Jerusalem and place a heavy iron yoke around our necks, and all because of 
our transgressions and the enormity of our sins’, etc. This is even more 
clearly expressed by his contemporary, Yefet b. ‘All, in his commentary 
on the Psalms, xi:l (. . . how say ye to my soul, flee as a bird to your 
mountain?): ‘for the Byzantines do not demand that we leave all of 
Palestine, only Jerusalem’ (therefore the Bible says ‘your mountain’ and 
not ‘your land’); and further on: ‘and they demand that we leave Jerusa¬ 
lem, but they shall not succeed in this’. The continuation is even more 
pronounced, on Psalms, xi:2 (For lo, the wicked bend their bow): ‘mean¬ 
ing to say that the Byzantines correspond with the Arabs constantly, 
demanding that they drive the Jews out of the city, but they will not 
succeed. It is obvious and known that they have been doing this for many 
years now . . .’; and again, to Psalms, xi:4 (The Lord is in his holy temple): 
‘he wished to show the honour of the mountain from which they intended 
that Israel be ousted .. . for how can He dwell with you when you are 
unclean and uncircumcised . . . ’ 

The natural inclination of the Christians in Palestine to side with the 
Byzantines and their allies (the Qarmatis, Alptakln and the Arab tribes) is 
also manifest in the episode of Abu’l-Yumn Quzman ibn Mina, a Chris¬ 
tian appointed by the Fatimid caliph (apparently al-Mu‘izz, before 976) as 
a sort of administrator in charge of ‘the districts of Filastln’, on the 
recommendation of Ya‘qub ibn Killis, who considered him a reliable man; 
and evidently his main concern was the collection of taxes. He managed to 
collect 200,000 dinars, deposited them with the abbe of the monastery on 


discovered his letter, after some 150 years, and translated it into Armenian. Michaud, 
Histoire, I, 19-47, described the events in Palestine from the middle of the tenth century 
onwards, and saw in the Byzantine offensive, a step in the psychological preparation for the 
Crusades. Subayna: see Dussaud, Topographie, 312, and the map after p. 76 (No. IV). 


347 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


Mount Tabor, and then betrayed the Fatimids and went over to their 
enemies (in the source: to the Qarmatls). 9 


Fatimid advance northwards (d) 

[552] On the 17th Rabi‘ II AH 365 (24 December AD 975), Caliph 
al-Mu‘izz died and was succeeded by his son, Abu Mansur Nizar, known 
as al-‘Az!z. One of the first moves of the new caliph was to appoint new 
governors in Palestine, people who were formerly loyal to the Ikhshidids: 
Wafi (or Ruqi) al-Saqlabl (‘the Slav’) in Acre; Bishara in Tiberias; Rabah in 
Gaza, On the advice of Ya'qub ibn Killis, who was made wazlr, and under 
his direction, a large army was organised under the command of Jawhar 
and it was sent to Damascus in Ramadan AH 365 (May AD 976). The 
army again took hold of all of Palestine easily and reached Damascus some 
two months after the outset of the offensive, on the last day of Shawwal (1 
July). Jawhar wrote to Alptakln from Ramla and promised him aman 
(personal security) and a letter of forgiveness for all his sins and also a 
khal'a (ceremonial attire) on behalf of the state, and also money. Alptakln 
replied rudely. The siege of Damascus lasted seven months. While it was 
still going on, the Qarmatls again joined the war against the Fatimids. 
According to some sources, it was Alptakln who approached them and 
asked for their help. But there is no doubt that the Qarmatls saw the 
Fatimids as their most dangerous enemies, perhaps just because they were 
closer to them in their views and religio-political philosophy. The Fati¬ 
mids did everything they could to come to terms with them, but to no 
avail. Al-Mu‘izz even wrote them a message of chastisement and concili¬ 
ation, but al-Hasan al-A‘sam’s answer was: ‘I received your letter full of 
words but devoid of wisdom; I shall bring you my answer’. 10 

9 See what Salmon writes in his commentary on Psalms, in Mann, Texts, II, 18f; Neubauer, 
who first published the fragment, read hyl instead of hal and assumed that it meant kayil, 
that is the Byzantine army. See: Neubauer, Aus der Petersburger Bibliothek, 12, 109 ;Jthdl is 
an idiom meaning: now. Cf. also Mann, Jews, I, 46, and n. 1; this passage of Salmon b. 
Yeruhim was generally seen as evidence of a dispute between Jews and Christians in 
Jerusalem and nothing more; see for instance Linder, in Peraqtm (1979), 23; while the 
general historical background, and particularly the more explicit statements of Yefet b. 
‘Ali, clarify for us the true significance. See his commentary to Ecclesiastes, in Vajda, 
Deux commentaires, 42, n. 4 (from BM Or 2517, fol. 83). See also: MS Paris 286, fol. 70; 
here, too, one must remember that at that time ‘Arab, Arabs, meant Bedouin, Arab 
tribesmen, hence those passages refer to letters written by the Byzantines to the tribes. The 
episode of Quzman: Sawlrus, II (2), 98f; who also adds an impossible story, according to 
which al-Mu‘izz had Ya'qub ibn Killis executed after Quzman repented and returned the 
money to the caliph. 

10 The appointments: Ibn Taghri BardI, IV, 117; see Thabit ibn Sinan, 66; Ibn al-Dawadari, 
176; Yahya ibn Sa'Id (PO), 181; HamadanI, Takmila, 226; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, VIII, 657f, 
663; Ibn Kathir, Biddy a, XI, 281; MaqrizI, Itti'dz, I, 189-202 (with a version of al-Mu‘izz’ 
very long letter and al-Hasan al-A‘sam’s short reply); idem, Khitat, II, 203, 414; idem. 


348 



FATIMID ADVANCE NORTHWARD (D) [SEC. 552] 

Fatimid retreat (d) 

[553] In view of the enemy’s numerical superiority (Alptakln, the 
Qarmatls, the Banu ‘Uqayl) Jawhar decided to lift the siege on Damascus 
and withdraw. According to Yahya ibn Sa‘Id, the Fatimids retreated from 
Damascus injumada I, AH 366 (January AD 977), that is, half a year after 
the beginning of the siege. According to Thabit ibn Sinan, Jawhar with¬ 
drew on 1 Dhul’-Qa‘da AH 365 (2July AD 976). Considering that most of 
the sources are in agreement on the fact that the siege of Damascus began 
on the 1st of July, as mentioned above, and that it lasted for a number of 
months, Yahya ibn Sa’id’s version is the preferable one. Jawhar retreated 
southward, in the direction of Ramla, with his enemies advancing in his 
wake, and while he was entrenching his forces in Ramla, they were 
encamped on the Yarqon, in al-Tawahln. 

The Fatimid army was now entirely surounded by enemies. And these 
adversaries were soon joined by 50,000 ‘people of al-Sham’, meaning the 
Arabs of Palestine, of the Banu Tayy’, under the leadership of the Banu 
Jarrah. In a fierce battle on the Yarqon, the Fatimid army suffered a 
crushing defeat. It was now under siege in Ramla, cut off from water 
supplies (evidently Ra’s al-‘ayn and the Yarqon) and both the soldiers and 
population were forced to drink rain-water from ditches, and even this 
rapidly disappeared. At long last, Jawhar decided to abandon Ramla and 
the Qarmatls entered the city on 18 Rajab AH 366 (12 March AD 977). 
Jawhar withdrew to Ascalon. In the meantime, Alptakin’s army reached 
Ramla from Damascus and the allies turned with their combined forces 
towards Ascalon, which was placed under a siege which lasted for no less 
than a year and three months. Most of Jawhar’s men died of starvation. 
Out of desperation, he began to negotiate with his enemies, mostly with 
the Turks evidently, for the Qarmatls objected to any agreement with the 
Fatimids and demanded that they be left to die of hunger. Finally, Alptakln 
agreed to an arrangement whereby he would be given the dominion of all 
of Palestine, including Ascalon, while the ‘Maghribis’, that is, the Fati¬ 
mids, would govern from Gaza southward. Alptakln would recognise 
al-‘Aziz as caliph but he would collect the taxes in the area under his 
control. Jawhar was even obliged to endure a humiliating ceremony on his 
withdrawal from Ascalon together with the remnants of his army; Alpta¬ 
kln hung a sword over the gateway to the fortress and Jawhar and his men 
had to pass under it. This evidently occurred in Sha’ban AH 366, that is the 
beginning of April AD 978. 


Muqajfa, 195; Ibn Zafir, 49a (printed: p. 26); Baybars, fol. 487; Ibn Khaldun, IV, 108; 
Abu’l-Fida’, II, 115. 


349 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


Fatimid advance northwards (e) 

Jawhar and what remained of his army then returned to Egypt. Al- 
‘Azlz, on Ya'qub b. Killis’ advice, ordered that a large army be prepared 
for another campaign in Palestine. The caliph himself stood at the head of 
the army, in Dhu’l-Qa'da, June 978. From this point onward, the anti- 
Fatimid alliance began to disintegrate. From now on, we do not hear much 
about the Qarmatls, evidently because of the death of their leader, al- 
Hasan al-A‘sam, in Ramla, a few days after they entered the city (accord¬ 
ing to Ibn al-‘Adim: on 23 Rajab, the 17th of March, AD 977). On the basis 
of coins minted by the Qarmatls in Palestine, we know that during the last 
five years of his life, al-Hasan became their sole ruler; for beginning with 
AH 362 (AD 972/3) we find the term ‘the head’ (al-ra ’ts) and not ‘the heads’ 
(i al-ru’asa referring to the Qarmatl council of six elders), inscribed on 
their coins. His cousin, Ja‘far b. Abi Sa‘Id, inherited his role. According to 
Hamadhanl, the Qarmatls withdrew to Tiberias, on the order of their 
leader al-Hasan al-A‘sam, after al-‘Az!z reached an agreement with them 
whereby they would receive an annuity of70,000 dinars, until ‘Jawhar and 
the cadi of Ramla’ chased them away. How this happened, we do not 
know. The report is apparently fundamentally correct, except for the 
name of the leader, for most of the sources agree that al-Hasan died in 
Ramla, that is, much before al-‘Az!z’ expedition. Another version claims 
that the agreement was made between al-‘Aziz and the Qarmatls in Ramla, 
in the presence of Jawhar and the aforementioned cadi, and that the sum 
was only 30,000 dinars per year (Ibn Khaldun: only 20,000). From this 
time onward, we hear nothing more about the Qarmatls in Palestine. 

As to Alptakln, he left Ramla and withdrew to Damascus (according to 
Ibn al-Dawadari, to Tiberias). At the same time, an internal struggle was 
going on in Iraq among the armies of the Buyids. Bakhtiyar (who had 
been Alptakin’s master), fought with his cousin ‘Adud al-Dawla, while 
Abu Taghlib the Hamdanid took part in the war alongside Bakhtiyar, as 
did Bakhtiyar’s brother and son, Abu Ishaq and Marzuban. Bakhtiyar was 
taken captive and the Hamdanid fled. Abu Ishaq and Marzuban also 
escaped to Damascus, and with them the Daylami army (the Daylamls 
were a Persian tribe to which the Buyids belonged). When they reached 
Damascus, Alptakln was in Tiberias. These were unexpected reinforce¬ 
ments and Alptakln was elated by their arrival. He made his wazlr, Ibn 
al-Himira, take care of them, and Ibn al-Himara duly spent a great deal of 
money on them, saw to their supplies, and escorted them to Alptakln in 
Tiberias. Now Alptakln had a force of 12,000 men at his disposal, all 
concentrated in Tiberias, and from here they set forth southward for 
Ramla. 


350 



FATIMID ADVANCE NORTHWARDS (E) [SEC. 553] 


Al-‘Aziz at first tried the strategy of negotiating. He sent emissaries to 
Alptakin and promised him atnan and large sums of money if he would 
accept his authority; he would even appoint him supreme commander of 
the army ( isfahsallar ) and let him rule over Palestine (perhaps the intention 
was Palestine and Syria together, that is, al-Sham) but the Turk did not 
respond and continued his preparations for war. Al-‘AzIz was encamped 
with his army behind Ramla, in Qasr Ibn al-Sarh, while Alptakin and his 
confederates fortified themselves in Birkat al-Khayzuran (‘the reed pool’). 
The battle took place on the Yarqon, at al-Tawahin, on 7 Muharram AH 
368, the 15th of August AD 978. Alptakm attacked the left wing of the 
Fatimids, forced them to retreat, and left many dead among the Maghri- 
bis. Then al-‘Aziz charged against the centre and right wings, killing some 
20,000 of his enemies, and was triumphant. Ibn al-Dawadari describes the 
role of the Daylamls in the battle. In view of the numerical superiority of 
the Fatimid army, who were overpowering them, they started to shout: 
zinharl (according to Maqrizi’s version in ‘Itti'az; in other sources it is 
distorted to bihar), the Persian translation of aman. The atnan was given 
them, and many were taken captive. The defeated Turks dispersed in 
every direction, with Alptakm among them. Arabs of the Banu Tayy’, the 
tribe of the Jarrahids, pursued him in order to win the award offered by 
al-‘Aziz for his capture. They caught him ‘between Qalansawa and Kafr 
Saba’, according to Yahya ibn Sa‘Id and according to al-Hamadham, in 
Lbtiy, by which perhaps Yavne is meant, or perhaps Lobana, which is Tall 
al-Safi (eight kilometres north of Bet Guvrin, which in the days of the 
Crusaders was called the Blanche garde citadel, destroyed by Saladin in 
1191). They brought Alptakin, who was on the verge of death from the 
blows he had received, before the caliph, who took pity on him and 
behaved generously. Ibn al-Athir describes the affair in the following 
manner: Alptakm flees from the battle-field and his thirst troubles him. He 
meets the leader of the Tayy’, al-Mufarrij b. Daghfal, his old friend and 
ally, and asks him for water. Al-Mufarrij gives him water, takes him to his 
home, entertains him with much honour but goes off to al-‘Az!z and 
informs him that he his holding Alptakm and that he is prepared to hand 
him over for the reward that has been promised. According to Ibn al- 
Dawadari, Alptakin fled ‘in the direction of the Jerusalem mountains’. A 
simple Bedouin named Rahib (rahib means monk, it is interesting to note), 
entrapped him and brought him to al-Mufarrij, on the 23rd of Muharram 
AH 368 (the 31st of August, AD 978). 

As I have mentioned, al-‘Az!z was generous towards Alptakin. He gave 
him the gift of a ring, and when he noticed that the Turk was hesitating to 
drink the beverage offered him lest it be poisoned, al-‘Az!z drank of it first 
in order to becalm him. A tent was placed at his sole disposal and he was 


3Si 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


even brought an escort from among his own men in captivity. Al-‘AzIz 
took him to Egypt with him, arriving there on the 22nd of Rabl‘ I AH 368 
(the 28th of October AD 978). Alptakin remained at the caliph’s court 
until he was poisoned on Ya’qub b. Killis’ orders. 11 


The attitude of the Muslims in Palestine towards the Fatimids 

[554] We have seen that in this campaign, which began in 974, Pal¬ 
estinian Bedouin are mentioned for the first time, mainly of the Banu 
Tayy’. This tribe stemmed from the southern part of the Arabian penin¬ 
sula, settled west of the Euphrates and left its mark in talmudic literature as 
well as in Syriac Christian literature, where it is called Ta'Tytm. We do not 
find them listed among the tribes of Palestine and its surroundings before 
the period under discussion. It is possible that they wandered to this region 
in the wake of the internal wars in the Abbasid caliphate during the first 
half of the tenth century. Canard has pointed out that the Banu Jarrah, the 
leaders of the tribe, 

maintained a wavering policy, at times on the side of the Fatimids and at others, in 
favour of the Byzantines. And sometimes they supported both sides at one and the 
same time. They had no reservations about using flattery towards one camp, in the 
most contemptible way, when they thought that danger was imminent, or even to 
betray ... to use every opportunity to rob in the cities and the villages and the 
pilgrims’ caravans. Basically, they remained Bedouin, with the virtues and faults 
of the desert Arabs. Their actions were not worthy of any praise. 

Although one cannot deny the truth of this statement, one must also see 
the other side of the coin, which is that the other factors which participated 
in this continuous political and military whirlpool did not differ in essence 
or character from the Arab Banu Jarrah. Canard’s apt description is 
applicable to all of them, including the Byzantines. 12 

11 Yahya ibn SaTd (PO), 181-184; Thabit ibn Sinan, 66f; Ibn al-‘AdIm, Zubda, 108; Ibn 
‘As'akir, III, 416; Ibn al-Qalanisi, 15-21; Ibn al-AthTr, Kamil, VIII, 638f, 656-661; Ibn 
Kathlr, Bidaya, XI, 276, 281f; Abu’l-Fida’, Mukhtasar, II, 115; Yafi‘1, II, 385, mentions the 
year of al-Hasan al-A‘sam’s death; in Ibn Taghri BardI, IV, 75, the date of his death is 
Rajab AH 362, i.e. AD 973, which is undoubtedly a mistake; also DhahabI, ‘Ibar, II, 341, 
notes that he died in AH 366, i.e. AD 977. On al-Hasan’s absolute rule according to the 
coins, see: Scanlon, B1FAO, 59(1960), 394ff; see also the list of publications on Qarmatl 
coins in the Appendix, ibid. , 47fF; MaqrizI, Itti'dz, I, 238-243; idetn, MuqaJjS, 195; Khitat, 
II, 414f; in Itti'dz, I, 205, he attributes the story of the treason of the Jarrahid to ‘eastern 
writers’; Bianquis, Annales islamologiques, 11(1972), 100, concludes from this that MaqrizI 
had doubts as to the verity of the story, but this is quite unlikely; see further: Ibn Khallikan, 
IV, 54. Isfahsallar is a Persian word - sipdh saldr, see: Canard, AIEO, 10(1952), 732; on 
Lobana see: Avi-Yonah, Ge’ogrdjya historit, 112; Prawer, Ha-salvdmm, I, 240, 374; cf. on 
the events: Wiistenfeld, Geschichte der Fatimiden-Chalifen, 137-140; Walker, Byzantion, 
47(1977), 306, 316; in his opinion the participation of the Qarmatls ended with the 
hostilities in the summer of 974 and this is certainly an error. 

12 See the article: Djarrahids (by M. Canard), in EF. 


352 



ATTITUDES OF MUSLIMS TOWARDS THE FATIMIDS [SECS. 554-556) 


[555] One should remember that the Fatimids were not really accepted 
by the Muslim population of Palestine. Muslim tradition has preserved the 
memory of one of the Fatimids’ main opponents in Palestine, and one can 
assume that there were many others like him: Abu Bakr al-Ramll, who is 
Muhammad b. Ahmad al-NabulusI, or in brief, Ibn al-NabulusI. He called 
for war against ‘the Banu ‘Ubayd’, as the Fatimids were called by their 
adversaries. According to descriptions in the chronicles, he was a sort of 
leader of Ramla. In AH 357, that is AD 968, he permitted the Qarmatls to 
enter Ramla with the consent of the townspeople. It is also very probable 
that he was more closely connected with the Qarmatls , and that he was 
executed together with his group of followers as a result of the failure of 
the Qarmati expedition against Egypt. After he fled from Ramla and the 
Fatimids, the Fatimid army caught him in Damascus, when it took the city 
from the Qarmatls at the end of the summer of AH 363, that is, AD 974. 
They brought him, together with his son and another 300 men, to Egypt. 
There they were beheaded, but they reserved for Ibn al-Nabulusi a par¬ 
ticularly horrible end; he was flayed, and his skin was filled with straw and 
his body crucified. This was done despite the fact that he offered to ransom 
himself for the sum of500 dinars. He is attributed with the saying: ‘If I had 
ten arrows, I would shoot one at the Christians and nine at the Banu 
‘Ubayd (the Fatimids)’. He continued to pour abuse on the Fatimids until 
the moment he died. 13 

[556] Notwithstanding, the Fatimids also had supporters in Palestine. 
First among them were the Jews. As we have seen, however, they had 
followers among the Muslims as well, who helped the founder of the 
dynasty to escape his Abbasid pursuers. An outstanding figure among the 
Fatimids’ collaborators during this period was the Jerusalem physician 
Abu ‘Abdallah Muhammad b. Ahmad b. Sa‘id al-Tamlml, who lived 
during the last half of the tenth century. At first, he was one of the 
intimates of the Ikhshidid who ruled in Ramla, al-Hasan b. Ubaydallah b. 
Tughj, and afterwards one of the circle close to the new rulers, the 
Fatimids. He had a special connection to Ya'qub ibn Killis, and composed 
a book for him, consisting of several volumes dealing with medicine. It 
was said that he was the pupil of another Jerusalem physician, Abu ‘All 

]3 Thabit b. Sinan, 62; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil , VIII, 640; Dhahabi, Duwal, I, 175; Ibn Kathlr, 
Biddya, XI, 277; Safadi, II, 44; ‘Iyad, II, 301ff; Ibnal-Tmad, III, 46; Ibn al-Dawadari, 161 
(he adds that Ibn al-Nabulusi was in Egypt when it was taken by the Fatimids, and fled 
from there; his capture and handing over to the Fatimids was carried out by Zalim ibn 
Mawhub al-‘Uqayli; Abu Mahmud Ibrahim b. Ja‘far, the Fatimid commander, received 
him and put him in a wooden cage and sent him to Egypt); Maqrizi, Itti'az, I, 210f; cf. the 
article by Bianquis, Annales islamologiques, 12:45, 1974, and the references he mentions 
there, 45, n. 1. On p. 46, he errs when he writes that he was an inhabitant of Nabulus; it 
was his father who came from there (as can be seen from his name), but he himself lived in 
Ramla. 


353 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


al-Hasan ibn Muhammad ibn Abl Nu‘aym. He also derived much of his 
knowledge from a Jerusalem monk with whom he had become friendly, 
by the name of Anbaz Kharma (as Ibn Abl Usaybi’a has it), or AsarHarma 
(as SafadI has it) b. Thawaba; it seems that the correct name was Anba (that 
is, the father) Zakariyya’. 14 


Events of the year 979 

[557] After ridding the political and military arena of Alptakln and the 
Qarmatis, it was the Hamdanids who remained the most important force 
still standing in the way of the Fatimids. Merely a few months had passed 
since the Fatimids’ victory and Caliph al-‘Az!z was again facing a growing 
alliance between the Hamdanids, the leaders of the Banu ‘Uqayl in Syria, 
and the Tayy’ in Palestine, Further on, we shall see with what ease this 
alliance disintegrated. This time, the Fatimids evidently concentrated a 
sizeable force, headed by the Jew Fadl, son of Salih the physician. Fadl was 
an intimate friend and aide (ghulam ) of Ya’qub ibn Killis. Throughout the 
winter 978-9 Fadl tried to negotiate with the leader of the Hamdanids, 
Abu Taghlib, who is Fadlallah b. al-Hasan. Fadl even went to Tiberias for 
this purpose, but Abu Taghlib refused to sit together with him because he 
was a Jew. Abu Taghlib’s arrogance actually had no real backing, 
however. A short while earlier, he had quarrelled with ‘Adud al-Dawla, 
the Buyid ruler of Baghdad, and was forced to escape from Mosul and 
transfer the forces still loyal to him through the Hawran, to the region of 
the Golan and the Sea of Galilee. His new base was the village of ‘Aqib. At 
the time, Damascus was ruled by al-Qassam, of whom I shall speak 
further. Abu Taghlib tried to negotiate with Caliph al-‘Aziz directly by 
means ofletters and even sent him his secretary ( katib ) ‘All b. ‘Amr. But in 
the meantime, his situation became increasingly difficult, for the Da¬ 
mascenes were attacking him, and members of his own family began to 
abandon him one after the other. He was forced to withdraw from the area 
of the Sea of Galilee and make his base in the Hawran, in Nwy (read: 
Nawa; which is Nawe in talmudic literature). On ‘id al-fitr AH 368 (3 May 
AD 979), he received a letter from his secretary with the news that the ruler 
of the west (sahib al-maghrib, that is, the Fatimid caliph) promised to grant 
all his demands and invited him to come to him in Egypt. Abu Taghlib 
was too cautious to accept the invitation and continued his contacts with 
the Fatimids via letters and emissaries. But when his situation became 

14 Ibn al-Qiftl, 105f, 169; Ibn Abl Usaybi'a, II, 21 IF; 87; SafadI, al-Wafi, II, 81; the name of the 
book by Abu ‘Abdallah: ‘Prolonging life by correcting the harm done by the plague and 
caution regarding the damage it causes’. See on him also in Sezgin, I, 317f. 


354 



EVENTS OF THE YEAR 979 [SEC. 557] 


worse, he agreed at long last to meet with Fadl, on condition that each of 
them would be seated on a separate seat ( sarir ). The meeting took place in 
al-Sinnabra. In his desire to create havoc within the Arab camp, Fadl 
promised Abu Taghlib the city of Ramla, whence he would oust the Banu 
Jarrah. But the Jarrahids had made Ramla their base at that time, with the 
explicit permission of Caliph al-‘Aziz, who even sent them an official 
document (sijill) to this effect, promising them the rule of Ramla and 
assistance from the caliph. Fadl, himself, had handed them the document. 
Indeed this stratagem succeeded and battles soon broke out between the 
two Arab factions, the ‘Uqaylids and the Banu Tayy’. Abu Taghlib 
launched an offensive on Ramla in August 979. With him were the Banu 
‘Uqayl and their dignitaries, among them also Shibl b. Ma‘ruf. Then 
al-Mufarrij b. Daghfal, the leader of thejarrahids (the masters of the Banu 
Tayy’) turned to Fadl and asked for the assistance that had been promised 
him. Fadl at that moment was on an expedition to Damascus, where he 
hoped to impose his authority. En route along the coastal road, he received 
al-Mufarrij’s request and immediately turned eastward to Ramla and 
intervened on his behalf. The battle which ensued took place on the 2nd of 
Safar AH 369 (29 August, AD 979). There were also deserters from the 
Fatimid army among Abu Taghlib’s forces, mostly Turks under the 
command of Asakhtakin. But Abu Taghlib’s enemies had the superiority 
of numbers, his fighters took flight, and he was left with only 700 men on 
his side. The Bedouin of al-Mufarrij managed to catch Abu Taghlib and 
led him through the streets of Ramla, tied to a camel. Fadl demanded that 
Abu Taghlib be handed over in order to send him to Egypt but al-Mufarrij 
refused and killed him with his own hands, because he imagined that if he 
would be left with the Fatimids, he would be pardoned and kept by them 
to stand against him whenever they wished. His head was sent to Egypt 
together with the captives of the Banu ‘Uqayl. This was the end of the 
Mosul branch of the Hamdanids. Their other branch (descendants of Sayf 
al-Dawla) managed to hold their ground in Aleppo until 1015. 

Ramla endured considerable suffering during that year; the Banu Tayy’ 
who controlled the city, destroyed it completely. Ibn al-Dawadari says: 
‘people were coming to Ramla looking for something to eat, but found 
nothing; and the farmers roamed about the markets, begging’. 15 


The episode of al-Qassam 

[558] As I have already mentioned, it was al-Qassam who ruled in 
Damascus in that year, that is in 979. He was one of the closest of 

)5 Evidence of the consolidation of the Fatimids’ rule in that year can be seen in the renewal of 
minting coins (gold dinars) in Palestine, see: Lane Poole, Catalogue, IV, 15; on the events, 


355 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


Alptakin’s followers and among the most active defenders of Damascus 
during Jawhar’s attempt to conquer the city at the beginning ofjuly 976. 
Al-Qassam, who is described in the sources as a leader devoted to the local 
population and who rose from the ranks of the masses, was born in the 
neighbourhood of the Hermon, in a village called Talfith. He is said to 
have been of the Banu Harith b. Ka‘b, a Yamani tribe, that is, of Arab 
origin, a Bedouin. He lived in Damascus and it seems that he was a farmer 
(or one who cleans up [?] tarrdb wa-zabbal) at first. When he reached the 
status of leader of the Damascenes, he exercised his authority stringently 
and even had his own insignia in the form of a jug. In principle, he 
acknowledged the Fatimids’ sovereignty over the city. We have already 
seen that it was due to him that the Hamdanid Abu Taghlib was prevented 
from entering Damascus in 979. According to Ibn al-Dawadari, he even 
approached the Fatimids and asked for help against the Bedouin. He also 
tells us that al-Qassam was part of an armed extremist heretic sect, headed 
by a man called Ibn al-Jistar. As we have seen, the Fatimid army was on its 
way to Damascus to get rid of al-Qassam in 979, when it was called to take 
part in the battle of Ramla. After the victory in Ramla, at the end of August 
979, al-‘Az!z sent another army to regain the Fatimid dominion of Da¬ 
mascus, led by Salman b. Ja'far b. al-Fallah. The 4,000 Maghribis who 
formed this army were stationed, for the time being, in the al-Wazir grove 
in the ‘Lane of the Pomegranates’ (zuqaq al-rumman). The Fatimid army 
took possession of Damascus and its commander, Salman b. Ja'far, soon 
pronounced a ban on bearing arms. A sentry belonging to al-Qassam’s 
party, four armed men led by a certain Hamid, were arrested, and this 
aroused a violent reaction of al-Qassam and the city’s elders. They wrote a 
complaint to Caliph al-‘Aziz, and in their letter promised to defend the city 
from the ruler of Baghdad (‘Adud al-Dawla, of the Buyids). The caliph 
took their letter into account and sent Salman written instructions that he 
was to leave the city, which Salman did, after a stay of only a few months. 
In his stead, the caliph sent the latter’s brother Abu Mahmud, who is 
Ibrahim b. Ja‘far b. al-Fallah, who was staying in Tiberias at the time and 
was now appointed wall (governor) of Damascus. In fact, Damascus 
became independent and was actually ruled by al-Qassam. 

see: Yahya ibn Sa‘Id (PO), 194ff; Ibn al-QalanisI, 22; Ibn Miskawayh, II, 401ff (he has 
many details on the background to the intervention of Abu Taghlib in the affairs of 
Palestine; he tells that the capturer of Abu Taghlib in the battle of Ramla was the cousin of 
al-Mufarrij b. Daghfal, called Mushayya 1 ); Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, VIII, 699; Abu’l-Fida’, 
Mukhtasar, II, 120; Ibn Khallikan, II, 116f (who places these events mistakenly in the year 
AH 367, i.e. AD 977; he notes that he copied it from the book of the wazir Abu’l-Qasim, 
who is al-Husayn ibn al-Maghribl, Adah al-Khawass. (He is al-Husayn b. ‘All al-wazir 
al-maghribl, who will be mentioned below in connection with the events of 1010; see on 
him and on his aforementioned book: Brockelmann, GAL, S I, 600f.) Ibn al-Dawadari, 
192f, 199, who has details on Fadl, the Jewish Fatimid commander; and also the credible 


356 



THE EPISODE OF AL-QASSAm [SEC. 558] 

Two years later, al-‘Aziz sent an army under the command of the Turk 
Subuktakln (in some of the sources: Yaltakin, Baltakin, Baktakin), and 
charged him with the capture of Damascus. This put an end to al-Qas- 
sam’s dominance. The army was stationed near Damascus, in al-Dakka. 
An indecisive battle was fought with the people of Damascus. In Dhu’l- 
Hijja AH 370 (June AD 981), the city was besieged for several months but 
it would not surrender. At the same time, differences of opinion sprung up 
within the Fatimid camp. Manasseh b. Abraham al-Qazzaz, the Jewish 
katib who was in charge of administrating Fatimid army affairs in al-Sham, 
favoured al-Qassam, perhaps because the latter had good relations with 
the Jews of the city, while Jaysh b. Samsama, who was appointed gover¬ 
nor of Damascus, was determined to oppose al-Qassam to the bitter end. 
Subuktakln tried to mediate between the two sides, but then he preferred 
to act, tightened the siege around the city, and overcame its defenders. 
This time, Damascus fell to the Fatimids after seven days of siege, on the 
20th of Muharram AH 373 (5 July AD 983). Al-Qassam was nowhere to 
be found and only after a large reward was offered for his capture was it 
learned that he was hiding in the synagogue, among the oiljugs. Then the 
dayyan was told that the synagogue would be destroyed or burnt down, 
and he himself helped those who were looking for al-Qassam, but he was 
not to be found. Only after his wife and children were caught did al- 
Qassam give himself up to the army. At night he was brought to the tent 
of Manasseh ibn al-Qazzaz, who handed him over to Subuktakln, and he 
was sent to Egypt together with his household. There they were publicly 
displayed on the backs of mules, in Rabi‘ II AH 373 (September/October 
AD 983), and remained in jail until the 15th of DhuT-Hijja, 19 May AD 
984. They were then released and al-‘Az!z treated them kindly. 16 

date of the battle of Ramla, 2 §afar; MaqrizI, Itti'az, II, 249-252; cf. Wiistenfeld, Geschichte 
der Fatimiden-Chalifen, 139f and the article Hamdanids by M. Canard, in EP, and especially 
pp. 569f. 

16 Yahya ibn SaTd, 194, 204; Ibn al-Dawadarl, 177, 192, 195, 209; Ibn al-QalanisI, 26f; Ibn 
al-Athlr, Kamil, VIII, 697; Ibn ‘Asakir, II, 202f (a brief and confused survey); MaqrizI, 
Itti'az, I, 253-258; idem, Muqajja, 195f; According to him al-‘Az!z sent a special emissary to 
Damascus during the battle of Ramla, named Humaydan ibn Hirash (or Khirash), to rid 
Damascus of al-Qassam; his fate is not known, but we have seen that afterwards the caliph 
was first inclined to arrive at a reconciliation with al-Qassam and recognise his authority; 
according to MaqrizI, Abu Mahmud Ibrahim b. Ja‘far, who was sent to Damascus at the 
time of the reconciliation, would have had to be subordinate to al-Qassam’s orders. 
MaqrizI even notes the date of the death of Abu Mahmud as Safar AH 370, or August AD 
980, which implies that the worsening of the relationship began later. Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, 
XI, 292f, notes that the village Talfita is near Manln, adding that out of affection, the 
people called al-Qassam, Qusaym (a diminutive) al-Zabbal; Abu’l-Fida, Mukhtasar, II, 
122 (under the year AH 372). On Talfita, see: Yaqut, Buldan, I, 860; cf. Dussaud, 
Tapographie, 283: some 20 kilometres north of Damascus, see there the map after p. 76 
(No. IV; see on the same map the aforementioned Manln). As to Dakka, it is still not 
identified, see Dussaud, ibid., 298 (Dikka). 


357 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


Events in Palestine 981-983 

[559] After the defeat of Abu Taghlib in Ramla in 979, the Banu Tayy’, 
under the leadership of the Jarrahids, remained the actual masters of the 
country. While the Fatimid army was engaged in the campaign against 
al-Qassam, the Bedouin, in fact, removed the Fatimid yoke and pro¬ 
claimed a state of rebellion in AH 371 (beginning 7 July AD 981). This 
uprising, which was taking place at the very rear of the Fatimid army 
while it was besieging Damascus, was also joined by Bishara, governor of 
Tiberias. He had formerly been a supporter of the Ikhshldids, and after¬ 
wards went over to the service of the Hamdanids, but he betrayed them 
when they were on the verge of defeat, and went over to the Fatimids. 
Ya'qub ibn Killis received him with open arms and appointed him gover¬ 
nor of Tiberias in the same year in which the rebellion of the Jarrahids 
broke out, that is AH 371 (AD 981/2). In the meantime, many men of the 
Hamdanid camp, from Aleppo especially, gathered together and came to 
him in Tiberias. With the outbreak of the rebellion, they immediately 
joined thejarrahids and stood constantly alongside al-Mufarrij, the leader 
of the rebels. 

An army under the command of Rashlq al-'AzizI, brother-in-law (his 
wife’s brother) of the wazir Ya'qub ibn Killis, was then sent to Palestine 
where it quickly routed the Bedouin. Al-Mufarrij and his tribe escaped 
southward and penetrated into Hijaz, where they were busy raiding 
pilgrims. There, too, the Fatimid army pursued them, under the com¬ 
mand of Muflih al-Wahbani. A battle took place in Eilat, in which the 
Arabs completely destroyed the Fatimid army together with its com¬ 
mander. The pilgrimage came to a halt and the pilgrims concentrated in 
Wadl’l-qura (on the Palestine-Hijaz border) and remained there for forty- 
five days until they decided to forgo the journey and return to Egypt. 
After his victory, al-Mufarrij went back to Palestine, fought against 
Rashlq and was defeated. This time, he escaped with his men through the 
desert to Bakjur in Hims, where the latter governed on behalf of Sa'd 
al-Dawla, the Hamdanid. There he was granted refuge and well-treated. 
The Banu Tayy’, however, had a tradition of collaboration with the 
Byzantines. They moved to Antioch, where they were given protection 
and assistance on the orders of the emperor, Basil II. In the year AH 373 (in 
the autumn of AD 983), al-Mufarrij joined forces with the domesticus 
Bardas Phocas, the Byzantine commander, in his siege on Aleppo against 
the Hamdanid Sa'd al-Dawla, whom al-Mufarrij had to thank for his 
recent refuge in Hims. The aim of the siege was to force Sa'd al-Dawla to 
pay the tax he owed the Byzantines for two years, a sum of40,000 dinars. 
For reasons which we do not know, the caliph al-‘Aziz afterwards decided 


358 



EVENTS IN PALESTINE 981-983 [SEC. 559] 


to comply with al-Mufarrij’s request and agreed to permit him to return to 
Palestine on conditions of aman. i7 


Jewish personalities in the Fatimid administration: Manasseh b. 

Abraham al-Qazzaz; Palti’el 

[560] Above I have mentioned the special link that existed between the 
Fatimids and the Jews, especially the merchants and financiers among 
them. One of these was the wazlr, Ya'qub ibn Killis, who converted to 
Islam. At this juncture we encounter the figure of Abu Sahl Manasseh ibn 
al-Qazzaz (‘the silk-merchant’), thejewish katib of the Fatimids, in charge 
of the army’s affairs in Syria and Palestine. The Arab sources sometimes 
call him Ibn al-Farrar, and at other times, Ibn al-Qazzaz, And there are 
those who call him Misha instead ofManasha- and it is obvious that these 
garbled versions were caused by the misuse of the diacritical dots, while 
‘the skeleton’ of the writing is identical. His correct name is preserved in 
Bar Hebraeus, in Syriac script, and also in the Cairo Geniza documents, as 
Manasseh b. Abraham al-Qazzaz. Clearly Manasseh was the most trusted 
representative of the Fatimids in Syria and Palestine and he had consider¬ 
able influehce on their policy in these areas. It is also obvious from the 
Arab sources as well as from the Geniza documents that he did much for 
thejews of Palestine. In a poem dedicated to ‘Adi (‘Adaya) b. Manasseh, 
the poet says of him that he ruled in Syria and Palestine, Damascus, Sova 
(which is Aleppo), Tyre, Sidon, Ramla; that he fought against the Arabs 
(‘the sons of Kedar and Nebaioth’) and suppressed them, and he mentions, 
as I have said, the favours he bestowed on his own people. Contrary to the 
praise of the Jewish poet, we find abuse in the words of an Arab: a 
contemporary Damascene writer, al-Wasanl (died in AH 394, that is, AD 
1004), whom Manasseh caused to be dismissed from his office (we do not 
know which office), composed three qastdas against him, which have been 
preserved. Nathan b. Abraham notes in a letter written inl039 that ‘one 
has never seen a Purim like that of the days of b. al-Qazzaz’. Almost all the 
Arab sources copied a story evidently first recorded by al-Musabbihl, 
according to which the Jew Manasseh and the Christian ‘Isa b. Nestorius, 
the factors of al-‘Aziz, were given to oppressing the Muslims and support¬ 
ing their own people, until the Muslims contrived a dummy in the form of 
a woman, placing a letter addressed to al-‘Aziz in her hands, in which they 
ridiculed the fact that al-‘Az!z supported the Jews and Christians and 

17 Yahya ibn Sa'id ( PO ), 203ff; Ibn ‘Asakir, III, 525f; Ibn al-Qalanisi, 24; Ibn al-Ath5r, Kamil, 

VIII, 562; Ibn al-Dawadarl, 205; Baybars, 252a; cf. the article Hamdanids by M. Canard in 

EP. 


359 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


oppressed the Muslims. When he read the letter, the story continues, he 
hastily placed the two under arrest. Manasseh’s son ‘Adi, evidently filled 
his father’s role, and the Gaon Solomon b. Judah also mentions him in one 
of his letters as “Adi b. Manasseh known as b. al-Qazzaz’. 

According to the aforementioned poem, Adi was a ‘ready writer’ (Ps., 
xlv:l), that is a katib. The two sons of‘Adi, Samuel and Ishmael, are also 
mentioned there. Another of his sons, Solomon, is mentioned in a Karaite 
marriage deed; in a Damascene marriage deed from the 18th of Kislev, 
AM 4741 that is, 29 November AD 980 (al-Qassam was then ruler in 
Damascus), one can still read the name al-Qazzaz, and also: ‘... the Kohen 
the treasurer b. Samuel b. Moses ha-Kohen ...’; it is possible that the 
marriage of‘Adi b. Manasseh is being spoken of, for the poem says of him 
that ‘he succeeded and took the daughter of great ones’, and indeed the 
sum of the bride-money mentioned in the marriage deed is very high — 300 
dinars. Manasseh also had a daughter, Husn, and another son, Samuel. A 
fragment of a deed in the Geniza deals with the division of the inheritance 
between the daughters of this Samuel, Mu’ammala and Mulayk, and the 
two sons of Mu’ammala are also mentioned, Hayyim and Hasan. Most of 
the family property was situated in a place called Tiir Ruba (the big 
mountain) in the neighbourhood of Tyre. The family tree, as far as its 
offspring are known to us, would be as shown on the following page. 18 
[561] Paltfel, one of the figures described in the Scroll ofAhtma'as, also 

18 SuyutT, Muhadara , I, 601; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil , IX, 116f; Ibn Taghrl BardI, IV, 115f; Ibn 
al-‘AdIm, Zubda, I, 188; Abu Shuja', 186; Ibn al-Qalanisi, 25, 33. The passage from Ibn 
al-Qalanisi was copied by MaqrizI, Itti'dz, 297 (the editor, the Egyptian scholar Jamal 
al-DIn Shavyal, amends the correct spelling in MaqrizI: al-Qazzaz, and prefers al-Farrar, 
as in the printed version of Ibn al-Qalanisi. Shayyal’s edition appeared in 1968! - an 
example of the total disregard for information on the history of thejews of the area in the 
Middle Ages); Abu’l-Fida’, Mukhtasar, II, 131; Ibn Iyas, Ta’rikh, I, 48; Bar Hebraeus 
(Bedjan), 196; (Budge), 177; see the qasidas of al-Wasanl in Tha‘alibl, Yatima , I, 262—265; 
see on this poet: Yaqiit, Udaba ’, IX, 233; cf. further on Manasseh ibn al-Qazzaz: Freytag, 
ZMDG, 11(1857), 248, n. 1, with the explanation that he was in charge of the army’s 
supplies; Mann, Jews, see the Index, and especially: I, 19-22; see the poem, TS 32.4, ibid., 
II, llff. Nathan b. Abraham’s letter: 183, a, line 25, right margin; Solomon b. Judah’s 
letter: 90, line 9; the Karaite marriage document: 307, see Mann’s comments ibid., 431 f. 
The Damascene marriage document: TS 8.129, printed by Friedman, Marriage, II, 356, in 
whose opinion it is from the year AM 4841 (AD 1080); Goitein, Mediterranean Society, III, 
456, n. 94, relates the name al-Qazzaz with the Kohen mentioned there (whose father’s 
name is Samuel), but what we have here is a torn fragment, and many words are missing 
between the word ha-Kohen and the word al-Qazzaz. The deed concerning a legacy: 16; 
Goitein, Mediterranean Society, III, 56, 438f, and n. 33 notes that from that deed it appears 
that Mulayk, the grand-daughter of Manasseh b. al-Qazzaz, was married to the son of 
Sahlawayh b. Hayyim, a rich Karaite of Fustat, an in-law of the Tustaris (cf. Gil, 
ha-Tustanm, 60). The Karaite connection can also be seen in 307. It is not unlikely that 
Manasseh b. al-Qazzaz and his family were Karaites. Manasseh’s end is a mysterious 
affair, as there are contradictions between the aforementioned sources and the version 
above. The most far-reaching version is that of Ibn Iyas, according to whom Manasseh 
and ‘Isa were executed by hanging; according to Ibn al-Athlr, on the other hand, they both 


360 



JEWS IN THE FATIMID ADMINISTRATION [SECS. 560-561] 


Abraham al-Qazzaz 


Manasseh 


Samuel 



Family tree of Manasseh ibn al-Qazzaz 


belongs to this period. Palti’el b. Shefatya, the scion of a wealthy Jewish 
family in southern Italy, was taken captive and surfaced in North Africa as 
a result of the vicissitudes of the times. There he earned the esteem of the 
caliph al-Mu‘izz’s entourage, joined him during the conquest of Calabria, 
and won his heart on the strength of his knowledge of astrology and his 
prediction that al-Mu‘izz would conquer Sicily, Africa and Egypt. He 
eventually became al-Mu‘izz’s main adviser. When al-Mu‘izz was about to 
die, he placed his son and heir in his charge, ‘and the story of the greatness 
to which the king raised him, over his treasures and how he put him in 
charge of the kingdom of Egypt and the kingdom of Aramaeans, as far as 
Mesopotamia and all of Palestine as far as Jerusalem, and his rule and 
dominion, riches and spendour provided by the king, are recorded in the 
chronicles of Noph and Anamim’ (Biblical names here meaning Egypt). 
And further on, ‘And in the same year, R. Paltfel died, the defender 


extricated themselves by ransom, ‘Isa with 300,000 dinars and Manasseh with ‘a great 
sum’; according to Abu’l-Fida', only ‘Isa was imprisoned; while Yahya ibn Sa‘id (PO), 
233f, tells us that ‘Isa was appointed wazir, over Abu’l-Fadl b. Ja'farb. al-Furat, in Rabi‘ I, 
AH 383, May AD 993; one had to address him by the words; ‘our honourable Master’ 
(sayyidna al-ajall)-, and that he was killed in jail, in jafar AH 387 (March AD 997), still in 
al-Hakim's time. It is not clear whether one can learn something about Manasseh’s fate 
from this as well. Mann, Jews, I, 21, finds proof in the aforementioned poem dedicated to 
his son ‘Adi, that Manasseh was not executed, ‘for he departed from his people with a 
good name’ (line 28); while Halper, Hatequfa, 18 (1922/3), 182, believed that this version 
indicates the contrary; that he did not die a natural death. It seems that Mann’s opinion is 
the more likely, see further in Mann, ibid., II, 16, another poem, which, to judge by its 
heading, also deals with Manasseh b. Ibrahim al-Qazzaz (cf. I, 22); see further on 
Manasseh's end: Gottheil, Zeitschrift f. Assyriologie, 26(1912), 205. 


361 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


[erroneously written ha-menaggen] of the communities of God’s nation 
who dwell in Egypt and Palestine, in Palermo and in Africa, and in all the 
kingdom of Ishmael, for he ruled in the kingdom of the Hebrews and the 
kingdom of the Aramaeans and of the Egyptians and the kingdom of the 
Ishmaelites and of the Palestinians’. We have yet to find a source, either 
Arab or in the Geniza documents, which mentions a personage by the 
name of Paltl’el. De Goeje tried to identify him with Jawhar. Hrbek 
criticised this opinion, mostly on the score of the fact that he is not 
mentioned in the Geniza documents at all, and apart from this, because his 
point of view was that Jawhar was of Slavic-Dalmatian origin (and not 
from Sicily, as others believed, the discussion centring round the question 
whether the correct reading was saqlabT or siqillt). Fischel was inclined to 
accept the supposition that Palti’el was Ya’qub ibn Killis, but it is easily 
seen that there is no similarity in the biographical details, as Ya'qub ibn 
Killis came of a Babylonian family and converted to Islam. 

Another attempt to solve the riddle of Paltl’el was made byB. Lewis, on 
the basis of a brilliant analysis of the sources. On the basis of further Arab 
sources, including a collection of sources published in 1965 by a Tunisian 
scholar, he suggests that Paltfel was Musa b. Eliezer, who was the 
physician to al-Mansur, al-Mu‘izz and al-‘AzIz, and who accompanied 
al-Mu‘izz from the Maghrib to Egypt. He was the author of a number of 
books on medicine. One of the Arab sources even mentions specifically 
the raid on the Byzantine regions of southern Italy, including Oria, where, 
it says, this Musa the physician was taken captive. In the biography of 
Judhar, the secretary of the Fatimid court during the period before the 
conquest of Egypt and immediately afterwards, Musa b. Eliezer, phys¬ 
ician to the caliph, is also mentioned. His two sons, Isaac and Ishmael, are 
mentioned, as is Isaac’s son, Jacob, and also Musa’s third son, ‘Awn Allah, 
who became a Muslim. One may still question why the author of the 
‘Scroll of Ahima'as’ thought it necessary to camouflage the names of his 
ancestors to such a degree or why he called Paltl’el a man whose real name 
was Moses, and members of his family by other apparently invented 
names such as Shefatya, Hananel, and the like. 

One should bear in mind that the story of Palti’el’s life has three focal 
points: (1) his captivity, (2) the fact that he was an excellent physician, and 
(3) that he was one of the most important figures in the state and in charge 
of political and military enterprises. The Arab sources on Musa b. Eliezer 
only concentrate on (1) and (2), that is to say that there is no mention of his 
military or political status. Counter to Lewis’ conjecture, one can suggest 
another figure, and that is the Fatimid commander and statesman, thejew 
Fadl b. Salih, whom we have already encountered above at the head of the 
Fatimid campaign northward in 979. Here we find both (2) and (3): he 


362 



JEWS IN THE FATIMID ADMINISTRATION [SECS. 560-561] 


came from a family of medical men and was also a statesman and com¬ 
mander — these are two factors in common. Here one must mention a third 
element, the story of the Byzantine envoy who refused to sit down with 
Paltl’el, which runs parallel with the aforementioned story of Abu Tagh- 
lib-Fadl. At any rate, they seem to have a common nucleus, and perhaps 
the author of the scroll substituted a Greek villain for an Arab villain. One 
may also add that there is a phonetic semblance between the names Fadl 
and Paltfel, while no such assonance exists with the name Musa. If we 
return to social status and military and political achievements, we find on 
the one hand a description of Paltf el’s greatness and actions, while on the 
other, the Arab sources speak extensively of Fadl’s honourable standing. 
We have seen how he ran the campaign of979. In the summer of AH 378, 
that is AD 988, he suppressed the uprising in the area of the Delta and took 
its leader captive. In AH 383 (AD 993), he was put in charge of the finances 
of the Fatimid regime: al muhasaba ft wujuh al-amwdl. During al-‘Aziz’ 
time, he was placed third, in an ironic work which gave pride of place to 
the converted Jew Ya’qub ibn Killis, followed by the caliph. These were 
the rhymes ascribed to a Damascene, al-Hasan ibn Bishr: ‘Convert ye to 
Christianity, for Christianity is the true faith, as these times go to prove, 
for your greatness and glory are three, and all others are nullities when 
compared to them; for they are: Ya'qub the wazir, the father; and that 
al-‘Az!z, the son; and the holy ghost, Fadl’. And it was said of him further: 
‘Indeed, al-Fadl is a brilliant star, beyond all praise, above all others, by his 
generosity, known far and wide; he is compassion itself, he gives freely to 
every passerby; everything goes smoothly if ibn Salih is agreed with’. In 
AH 397, that is, AD 1006, already during al-Hakim’s rule, he saved the 
Fatimid regime in a brilliant battle campaign against the rebel Abu Rakwa, 
in the neighbourhood of Alexandria. The Arab sources point out that Fadl 
was one of al-Hakim’s many victims, for the latter had him executed on 
the 21st of Dhu’l-Qa‘da AH 399 (17July AD 1009). 

There is a certain similarity and parallel also to be found in the descrip¬ 
tion of the family histories of Fadl and PaltT’el. ‘The Scroll of Ahima‘as’ 
tells that Paltl’el’s son, Samuel, was also ‘great and honoured in his 
generation’, and died in AM 4768 (AD 1007/8). In the Sefer ha-hastdtm 
however we find a somewhat obscured account of the killing of Paltl’el’s 
brother. The Arab sources tell of Fadl’s brother, Isma‘il (which is gener¬ 
ally the Arabic name of Jews called Samuel), who had had connections 
with the greatest in the realm, especially with the family of the cadi 
al-Nu‘man and with the family ofjawhar, the supreme commander of the 
Fatimid army, and who was executed about a year and a half after his 
brother Fadl, on 12 Jumada II, AH 401 (21 January AD 1011), together 
with Husayn b. Jawhar and ‘Abd al-‘Aziz b. al-Nu‘man. 


363 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


Naturally, none of this offers decisive proof that Paltl’el was indeed 
Fadl, and at this stage of research, a conclusive solution does not seem 
possible. At any rate there is sufficient evidence here to stress the un¬ 
questionable fact that a number of Jews held an honourable place in the 
service of the Fatimids. This certainly found its expression in the attitude 
of the Fatimid rulers towards the Jews in Palestine, and they in turn 
responded to this regime with loyalty and support. 19 


The episode of Bakjur, 983-988 

[562] Apparently, the Fatimid regime consciously decided to adopt a 

policy of appeasement towards the Arab tribes. As part of this policy, as 

19 See the Scroll of Ahlma'as (Klar), 30-36, and the commentary there, 147-151; Kaufmann, 
MGWJ, 40:462, 496, 529, 1896; idem, ZDMG, 51:436, 1897; De Goeje, ZDMG, 52:75, 
1898; Hrbek, Archiv Orientalni. 21(1953), 564f. See also Majid, Zuhur, 103f. De Goeje’s 
opinion was also accepted by Marx, Studies, 78-85. See: Fischel, Jews, 64-68; Lewis, 
BSOAS, 30:177, 1967; attention was already paid to Musa b. Eliezer in research (according 
to Ibn al-Qiftfs book): Loeb, MWJ, 7(1880), 102; Steinschneider, Arabic Literature, 96f; 
Poznanski, MGWJ, 49(1905), 48f; cf. Mann ,Jews, 1, 18. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 
575, n. 9, also had reservations about Lewis’ proposal, because of the dissimilarity of the 
names, and also because we do not find, among the Jewish names of the period, the name 
Eliezer (since the Biblical Eliezer was a slave!), the name of al-Mu‘izz’s physician’s father 
according to the Arab sources. The story of the Byzantine envoy: the Scroll of Ahlma'as 
(Klar), 3 If. In the Scroll of Ahima'as there is a story of a kind of prediction of the death of 
al-Mu‘izz. The passage is in the part telling of al-‘Aziz, the son, but according to its 
contents, one can see that it belongs to the life-story of al-Mu‘izz, and one can also see this 
by his nickname in the story, ‘king of the Yemenites’, as is his nickname elsewhere in the 
Scroll. The same prophecy applies to the death of ‘a Byzantine Greek king’ (thus in the 
manuscript, both in the main text and in the margin, and it clearly refers to the Byzantine 
emperor), ‘the king of Baghdad’, ‘the Spanish king’; indeed the four of them: al-Mu‘izz, 
John Tzimisces, Bakhtiyar the Buyid ruler, and the Spanish caliph al-Hakam, died in the 
year AM 4737 (AD 976/7). In this matter, too, we find a parallel Muslim story in Suyuti, 
Muhadara, 1, 601; there it tells of an astrologer who foretold the year of the death of 
al-‘Aziz, the son of al-Mu‘izz; the caliph hid in the cellar to avoid his fate while the entire 
people believed that he went up to heaven, and in the end, died as it was foretold. The 
suppression of the uprising in the Delta: lbn al-Qifti, 331. The appointment in 993: Ibn 
al-Sayrafi, 25; the rhymes: ibn Khallikan, VII, 35. On the rebellion of Abu Rakwa 
al-Walid ibn Hisham see: al-Mughrib, V, 57; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, IX, 197-203; Ibn Zafir, 
57b-58b (printed: 46-48); Abii Salih, 121; the Samaritan chronicle (Adler), in REJ, 
45(1092), 252 (there he is called al-Fadl b. ‘Abdallah); cf. Lane-Poole, History, 128f. The 
town Munyat al-Qa’id, south of Fustat, was called after Fadl b. Salih (qd’id = the 
commander), see: Ibn Khallikan, VII, 29; the locality is mentioned in the Geniza docu¬ 
ments, cf. Golb, JNES, 33(1974), 134; cf. 70, line 4; see this locality also in the list of 
Egyptian towns from 1376, in the supplement to ‘Abd al-Latif al-Baghdadi, 677; see also 
Maspero et Wiet, 49. On the killing of Fadl see the Arab sources mentioned above, and 
also MaqrizI, Itti'dz, II, 79 (according to Ibn Khallikan, ibid.: on the 17th ofjuly). Samuel 
b. Palti’el: the Scroll of Ahima'as (Klar), 37, 41; PaltTel’s brother: Sefer ha-tjasidim, 152; on 
IsmaTl, Fadl’s brother, and his circle see: Yahya ibn Sa‘id (Cheikho) II, 199; al-Mughrib, V, 
63; IbnTdhari, 259; Ibn Khallikan, V, 423; Ibn Hajar, Raf al-isr, 364. Al-Husayn b. Jawhar 
was one of the eminent figures in the kingdom and one of the most prominent Fatimid 
commanders, see MaqrizI, Itti'dz, II, according to the Index at the end of vol. III. 


364 



THE EPISODE OF BAKJUR [SEC. 562] 


we have seen. Caliph al-‘AzTz permitted Mufarrij b. Daghfal, the leader of 
the Banu Tayy’, to return to Palestine, and this he did evidently in 984. He 
soon found an ally in Bakjur, of the Hamdanids, who ruled in Hims with 
the help of the tribes and who controlled the supply routes to Damascus. 
In line with this policy of appeasing the Arabs, for which certain circles in 
the Fatimid regime were pressing (exactly who they were we do not 
know, but it seems that they were the Berbers’ representatives, of the 
Kitama), al-‘Aziz even agreed to hand over Damascus itself to Bakjur. 
This was precisely what thejews of Damascus and Manasseh b. al-Qazzaz 
feared most, and this was carried out despite the opposition of Ya'qub ibn 
Killis and the Turkish battalions, who supported Subuktakin. Those 
elements in the Fatimid regime who were hostile to Ya'qub ibn Killis, 
tried to have him ousted from his position, and even assassinated. Due to 
their insistence, the caliph was compelled to issue a written order to the 
commander of the forces in Damascus, the Turk Subuktakin, and to the 
secretary (katib al-jaysh) there, Manasseh ibn al-Qazzaz, to hand over the 
city to Bakjur and withdraw. Ibn Killis was obliged to accept this decision 
and also conveyed orders to Manasseh in this vein. Thus the town was 
handed over to Bakjur at the beginning of Rajab AH 373 (December AD 
983; Ibn al-Qalanisi gives the date as 7 Rajab 372, but this is not likely, 
because al-Qassam was still ruling in Damascus then). Hence Bakjur took 
over Damascus. He hastily had one of Manasseh’s supporters executed - a 
Jew by the name of Ibn Abi’l-‘Ud. This aroused the ire of Ya'qub ibn 
Killis, who claimed that this was rebellion and that the instigator of these 
actions was none other than Mufarrij b. Daghfal, the Fatimids’ enemy. At 
first Ya'qub attempted to get rid of Bakjur with the help of a Christian 
Damascene perfume merchant (‘attar) named Ibn Akhi’l-Kuways, in 
AH 377 (AD 987), but the plot failed and only caused considerable 
slaughter among those elements hostile to Bakjur’s rule in Damascus. This 
eventually supplied the Fatimid regime with a pretext for organising an 
expeditionary force against him. Al-'Aziz placed the freedman Munir at 
the head of this force. It was a large army and the Arab tribes of the Qays 
were also called to its side, while the Banu Tayy’, who were Yamanis, 
were their sworn enemies. All the governors of the districts were called 
upon for every possible assistance. The army started on its campaign at the 
outset of AH 378, that is May AD 988. Munir stopped in Ramla first and 
quickly took control of the town, but Mufarrij b. Daghfal dominated the 
entire region (Ibn al-Dawadarl: in the entire sawad - by which he appar¬ 
ently meant in the entire district of Filastln). With the advance of the 
Fatimid army, the Jarrahids withdrew northward to Damascus, and on 
their way managed to terrorise Tiberias and bring about governor Bish- 
ara’s flight from the town. Munir then made use of rival tribes to attack the 


365 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


two allies, Mufarrij and Bakjur. This lasted some two months, with no 
decisive outcome, until a serious battle took place south-east of Damascus, 
in Dariya. Recognising that he no longer had ground to stand on, Bakjur 
appealed to Manasseh b. al Qazzaz the katib and received an aman from 
him, and left the city of his own accord for Raqqa. This occurred on 
Tuesday, the 15th of Rajab of the same year, that is, the 29th of October 
AD 988 (in Ibn al-QalanisI there is some confusion, with conflicting dates 
on this matter). Manasseh b. al-Qazzaz’ tolerance towards Bakjur caused 
some tension between him and Ya'qub ibn Killis, and he was called to 
Egypt to account for his behaviour. In his defence, Manasseh claimed that 
he had had no alternative, for Bakjur had at his disposal a large army and 
also armoured-clad mounted Bedouin (referring to the Palestinian Banu 
Tayy’). It seems that Ya'qub ibn Killis dismissed Manasseh from his post 
temporarily at the time but we again find him in his former position in the 
days of Ya'qub ibn Killis’ successor, the Christian ‘Isa ibn Nestorius. 

At about the same time, there was a marked improvement in Fatimid- 
Byzantine relations. A Byzantine mission arrived in Egypt to conduct 
negotiations concerning the renovation of the Church of the Holy Se¬ 
pulchre, which was damaged in the riots of966, as we have seen. A peace 
agreement, valid for seven years, was signed between the two states. The 
Byzantines were bound to free all the Muslim captives; the Fatimid da'wa, 
rather than the Abbasid, would be introduced in the mosque in Constanti¬ 
nople, and there would be an orderly supply of Byzantine goods according 
to the caliph’s requirements. This agreement evidently had some influence 
on the subsequent events, as it enabled the energetic military campaign 
against Bakjur and Mufarrij and the city of Damascus to take place. 20 

The events of 996-997; internal war in Palestine 

[563] The wazlr Ya'qub ibn Killis died on Monday, 6 Dhu’l-Hijja AH 
380, 24 February, AD 991, at the age of sixty-two. On his death-bed, he 
left al-'AzIz a sort of political testament: to live at peace with the Byzan¬ 
tines as long as they kept the peace, to be satisfied with the Hamdanids’ 
recognition of his sovereignty, and not to forego any opportunity to 
destroy Mufarrij b. Daghfal. All this seems quite credible and understand¬ 
able against the background of considerable harassment and constant 

20 Ibn al-Qalanisi, 28-30, 38; Ibn al-Dawadari, 220ff; Baybars, 256a; cf. Canard, Hamdanides, 
686. Bishara, the governor of Tiberias, as mentioned above, belonged to the Ikhshidids. 
His loyalty to the Fatimid regime can be seen in silver coins minted on behalf of the 
Fatimids in Tiberias in 375 (985/6), see: Mitchell, INJ, 3(1965/6), 58. Later on, al-Hakim 
appointed him governor of Damascus first and afterwards of Tiberias, on the 4th ofRabl* 
I, AH 390, 14 January AD 1000, see Ibn ‘Asakir, III, 225f. Dariya, see: Dussaud, 
Topographic, 297, and map No. IV (after p. 76). The agreement with the Byzantines: 
Dolger, Regesten, I, 770. 


366 



INTERNAL WAR IN PALESTINE [SECS. 563-565] 

threat posed by the Banu Tayy’ Arabs to the Fatimid regime in Palestine. 
They were now the major stumbling block on the way to Damascus and 
the Fatimids’ ultimate goal of Baghdad. 

After the death of al-‘Aziz on 14 October 996, when his successor 
al-Hakim was still a minor, fierce internal strife blazed up between the 
KitamI battalions, the Maghribi tribesmen who formed the major part of 
the Fatimid army from the very outset, and the Turks, who had gradually 
occupied an important role in this army during the rule of al-Mu‘izz and 
al-‘Az!z. The leader of the Turks was Manjutakin, who hadjust completed 
a successful campaign against Aleppo, which was a source of anxiety to the 
Byzantines. The governor of Antioch rushed to Aleppo’s aid and even the 
emperor Basil II hurried to the battle-field, leaving behind the expedition 
against the Bulgars. The Byzantines then advanced into northern Syria 
and reached Tripoli while Manjutakin retreated to Damascus. The Turks 
concentrated their forces in Ramla and were preparing to attack the KitamI 
battalions, who were under the command of al-Hasan ibn ‘Ammar. The 
latter complained to al-Hakim and requested that he view this as rebellion 
and indeed, it is quite understandable that al-Hakim was not at ease with 
the fact that the Turks were resorting to internal warfare while the Byzan¬ 
tine enemy was standing at their gates. Possibly it may have been the 
danger posed by the Byzantines that led to the dismissal and execution of 
the Christian wazlr, the aforementioned ‘Isa b. Nestorius. Al-Hakim then 
ordered the organisation of a large military force, consisting of KitamI 
battalions, under the command of Abu Tamlm Salman (or Salim) ibn 
Ja'far. The battle between the Berbers and the Turks took place in Asca- 
lon, and ended in the victory of the former. According to Ibn Muyassar, 
news of the battle (which he says took place in Ramla) and its outcome, 
reached Egypt by carrier pigeon in the middle of Rabl‘ II AH 387, the end 
of April, AD 997. Abu Tamlm offered a prize of 10,000 dinars for the 
capture of Manjutakin. ‘All ibn al-Mufarrij the Jarrahid succeeded in 
capturing him, but he was pardoned by Abu Tamlm, who wanted to 
restore the peace and now led his forces to Tiberias. ‘All ibn Ja‘far, Abu 
Tamlm’s brother, overcame Damascus and treated it as an enemy town, 
although the townsmen had surrendered willingly. The destruction was 
immense; the city was plundered and its buildings set on fire. 21 

[564] We have already seen that in the events connected with Bakjur, the 
Turks sided with Manasseh ibn al-Qazzaz and Ya‘qtib ibn Killis against 
the Arabs; that is, there was apparently a link between the Jewish party and 
the Turks. But a Geniza letter, evidently from the beginning of 1002, 

21 Yahya ibn Sa‘Id (Cheikho), 225f; Quda‘1, 108b; DhahabI, Duwal, 180; Abu Shuja\ 185; 

Ibn Khallikan, VII, 33ff; Yafi‘I, II, 251. On the structure of the Fatimid army: Beshir, Der 

Islam , 55:37, 1978; according to him, the status of the Kitamis reached its peak during 


367 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


gives the impression that the Jews later suffered to a great extent at the 
hands of the Turks as well. The letter is from Samuel b. Hosha'na, one of 
the central figures in the Palestinian yeshiva, to a certain Abraham of 
Fustat, perhaps Abraham b. Sahlan, one of the leaders of the ‘Babylonian’ 
congregation. The writer mentions ‘the submission of the two ill-wishers, 
one in Egypt and the other here’. Further on, he lists in rhyming verse: 
‘Edomite ‘arelTm [uncircumcised, i.e. Christians], ferocious Agags [Agag, 
king of the Amalekites], ill-wishers of the chosen’, one in ‘Zoan [which is 
Fustat, or perhaps he meant Egypt], and the other on the borders of 
Canaan’ [i.e. Palestine]. The one in Egypt ‘was finally drowned in deep 
water’; and the writer adds a note in the margin: ‘we were told that he was 
drowned in the Nile’ (i.e. such a rumour reached Palestine). ‘The other 
one’, in Palestine, mistreated its communities: ‘.. . he tormented the 
people of Zion, incited against the inhabitants of Acre, expelled the people 
of Tyre .. wounded the people of Gaza, and made the congregation of 
Hasariyya [Caesarea] wander. ..’ The letter is also signed by a man of 
Gaza, the abovementioned ‘Yeshu'a he-haver be-sanhedrin gedola b. R. 
Nathan, great-grandson of the lion’s whelp’ (i.e. of Biblical Judah). As 
noted, a dirge written by Yeshu'a b. Nathan for his only sonjosiah is 
known; according to what is written there, Josiah died on 19 Adar II AM 
4786 (11 March AD 1026), but the date of the letter precedes this consider¬ 
ably, for its writer signs Samuel ‘the fourth’ in the haviira while in a deed of 
10 November 1004, he is already called ‘the third’. One can assume that 
the persecution in Acre was instigated by Wafi (or Ruqi?) al-Saqlabi, and 
the persecution in Caesarea, by Rabah. These two had been appointed by 
al-‘Aziz as governors of these two cities, as we have seen above, and they 
were Turks. We do not know what fate lay in store for them under 
al-Hakim. Flowever, we do know that the governor of Tiberias, the 
Ikhshidid Bishara, was transferred by al-Hakim to Damascus, and then 
again moved back to Tiberias on 4 Rabi‘ I, AH 390 (14January AD 1000). 
The governor of Gaza and Ascalon was apparently replaced following 
these events. We do not know his name but merely that al-Hakim ap¬ 
pointed a new governor to serve both these towns: Yumn, a khddim, 
probably a freedman. ‘The one in Palestine’ cited in the aforementioned 
letter, was evidently Manjutakin and we know that al-Hakim ordered his 
execution later on. The ‘Edomite ‘arelTm’ are apparently Palestinian Chris¬ 
tians, and perhaps supporters of ‘Isa b. Nestorius, encouraged by the 
presence of the Byzantines in Syria. ‘The one in Egypt’ who was drowned 
in the Nile, is evidently the leader of the Turks and their representative at 
the court, the eunuch Barjawan, who we know was put to death in the 

al-Hakim’s time; but he does not refer to the war between them and the Turks at the 

beginning of al-Hakim’s rule at all. 


368 



INTERNAL WAR IN PALESTINE [SECS. 563-565] 

year 999, in the gardens on the banks of the KhalTj, a channel of the Nile 
near Fustat. 22 

[565] In the year AH 386, that is AD 996, there was an uprising in Tyre, 
led by a mariner named ‘Allaqa. The people of Tyre killed the Fatimid 
representatives in the town. Al-Hakim sent naval forces and also land 
forces against them, under the command of the Hamdanid Abu ‘Abdallah 
al-Husayn b. Nasr al-Dawla and Yaqut, one of al-Hakim’s freedmen. 
(Nasir al-Dawla, is al-Hasan, son of ‘Abdallah, of the Hamdanids, who 
was ruler of Mosul; another of his sons was Abu Taghlib, whom I spoke of 
earlier. This Husayn was appointed governor of Tyre in 996 by Caliph 
al-‘AzIz shortly before his death.) The Fatimid army established its base of 


22 On Barjawan, who was of Slavic origin, see Maqrlzi, Khitat, II, 404, 418, cf. Hrbek, 
Archiu Orientalni, 21(1953), 575; the appointment of Yumn in Gaza and Ascalon, see; 
Maqrlzi, ibid.. Ill, 248. See on the events: Abu Shuja‘, 222 (he erroneously dates these 
events and those that followed them, as AH 381, instead of AH 386, AD 996; Ibn 
Muyassar, 54f; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, IX, 119; Ibn al-Qalanisi, 50, under the year AH 387, 
AD 997, and also Maqrlzi, Itti'az, II, 8-11; cf. Lane-Poole, History, 124f, 159; on the 
appointments of al-‘AzIz in Palestine see: Ibn al-Qalanisi, 39. On the execution of 
Barjawan: Ibn al-Athir, ibid., 122; Mughrib, V, 56; Maqrizl, Itti'az, II, 25 (according to him 
he was executed cunningly, in an orchard called ‘the pavilion of the figs and grapes’). 
Possibly in the following stage of his reign, al-Hakim preferred the Berbers to the Turks; 
we know that in AH 407, that is AD 1016/7, he appointed Mukhtar al-Dawla ibn Nizal 
al-Kitami governor of Tripoli, see Ibn al-‘Adim, Zubda, I, 215. Samuel b. Hosha‘na’s 
letter: MS Berlin Community A4 (evidently lost), see quotations from it in Assaf, Meqdrot, 
33f; Assaf assumed that it was written before 1011, for he did not know of the fragment of 
a deed, 17, with the signature of Samuel ‘the Third’ b. Hosha‘na, from 1004; on hasariyya 
he assumed that it meant ‘its surroundings’ (of Gaza). Shirmann, Yedi'dt, 7(1957/8), 159f, 
printed another version of the same letter from the Geniza, MS Paris, Consist, isr. IV. A 
209; one can fill in certain lines by comparing the two versions: ‘... he tormented the 
people of Zion, incited the inhabitants of Acre against them, expelled the people of Tyre, 
robbed the dwellings of Ascalon, wounded the people of Gaza, and made the congregation 
of Hasariyya wander (MS Paris: Haserim). In MS Paris there is the date on which the 
nishtewan, evidently an order in favour of the Jews, arrived: Wednesday, the last day of 
Marheshwan; the last day of Marheshwan occurred at that time on a Wednesday in the 
year AM 4762, 19 November AD 1001. Shirmann, ibid., assumed that the events corre¬ 
sponded to those described in the Scroll of Abiathar (that is, at the end of the eleventh 
century), but this is an absolutely incredible assumption; Kedar, Tarbiz, 42(1972/3), 401 f, 
already noticed the similarity between the two manuscripts, and also found the correct 
general chronological framework. In my article in Shalem, 3 (1980/81), 29, I attributed 
letter 15 also to this episode; Mann, Texts, I, 348f, assumed that it belonged to the 
Crusaders’ period and that the writer was a member of the exilarchic family, because of the 
mention of the house of (King) David; but this is merely an expression of longing for the 
coming of the Messiah; see the introduction to 15; the destruction of the communities in 
Palestine as described there, and the matter of the ransomed captives, who arrive ‘from all 
the borders of the Land of Edom and its gates’, that is to say, from Byzantium and its 
ports, may perhaps relate this letter to the events described here in which the Byzantines 
were involved, as we have seen, but perhaps some time between 965-975 is meant, during 
the Byzantine invasions described above. At any rate, the emphasis upon Byzantium 
(while there is no hint of the Crusaders) proves that the Crusaders’ conquest is not the 
subject of discussion. See in Assaf, ibid., on the dirge composed by Yeshu'a b. Nathan and 
further information about him; see the dirge itself in Zulay, Yedi'dt, 3(1936/7), 176-180. 


369 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


operations in Tripoli and Sidon. Tyre was placed under siege from the sea 
and the land. Then ‘ Allaqa appealed to the Byzantine emperor for help and 
he responded by sending a strong navy. In the battle at sea, the Byzantines 
suffered a serious defeat (Ibn al-Shaddad calls them al-ifranj, the Franks, a 
term afterwards applied to the Crusaders) and most of their vessels were 
captured. The Fatimid army also assaulted Tyre from the direction of 
Damascus, under Jaysh ibn Samsama, and the city finally fell in Jumada II, 
AH 388 (May AD 998). The conquerors despoiled the town and butchered 
many of its inhabitants. ‘Allaqa and many of his men were taken captive; 
they were taken to Egypt and there ‘Allaqa was flayed, his skin filled with 
straw, and he was crucified. The other prisoners were also executed, 
among them 200 Byzantine soldiers caught on board their ship during the 
battle. Abu ‘Abdallah al-Husayn, appointed by the Fatimids governor of 
Tyre, remained from then on the ruler of the city. 23 

The cruelties of al-Hakim 

[566] For a period of some fourteen years (997-1010), the Banu Jarrah 
enjoyed almost unlimited power in Palestine, evidently with the consent 
of Caliph al-Hakim. An attempt to get rid of them is recorded in AH 387, 
that is AD 997, when Jaysh ibn Samsama, the Fatimid commander and 
governor of Damascus, attacked the Bedouin during his preparations to 
take Tyre and suppress the uprising of‘Allaqa there. The Bedouin fled 
eastward, to the north of Hijaz, but they soon returned and settled again in 
Palestine, and the relationship between the caliph and their leaders im¬ 
proved. In the summer of AH 396, that is AD 1006, the sons ofal-Mufarrij 
spent some time in Egypt. One of them, ‘All, was given a ceremonial dress 
( khal'a) and other honours by al-Hakim, on 17 Shawwal AH 396, 18 July 
AD 1006. 

A short while after al-Hakim ascended to the caliph’s throne, nego¬ 
tiations with Byzantium began. A Byzantine mission arrived in Egypt, 
evidently at the end of998, in order to conduct negotiations on the signing 
of a pact of peace and friendship. These were being held concurrently with 
the ongoing war. Basil II, the Byzantine emperor, was then undergoing a 
continual series of wars against the Bulgars, which began in 980, when the 
latter rose up against the emperor. In 989, they advanced southward and 
Salonika was about to fall into their hands. Until 995, Basil was mainly 
occupied with this warfaring. From then onward, he was obliged to pay 
more attention to what was happening in the east, particularly the afore- 

23 Yahya ibn SaTd (PO), 246f (there is a misprint there: p. 264 instead of246); Ibn al-Athlr, 

Kamil, IX, 120; Ibn Shaddad, 115b—116a, and in the printed version: 164f; Ibn Khaldun, 

'Ibar, 118; Ibn al-QalanisI, 5If; MaqrizI, Itti'az, II, 18ff; Bar Hebraeus (Bedjan), 201; 

(Budge), 181. 


370 



THE CRUELTIES OF AL-HAKIM [SECS. 566-576] 

mentioned hostilities over Aleppo. In the battles against the Byzantines 
being fought in Syria, the Fatimids were victorious in 999, after the 
Byzantine commander, the Duke of Antioch, Damianos Dalassenos, was 
killed on the battlefield (July 998). On 20 September 999, the emperor 
himself arrived in Antioch and advanced at the head of his army as far as 
Aleppo, but was unable to conquer it. In the interim, he had to head for 
Armenia and reinstate Byzantine rule there; when this was done, he again 
was on his way to Syria, with the intention of renewing his war with the 
Fatimids. During a short stay in Constantinople, however, it became clear 
that his negotiating mission to the Fatimids had achieved some progress 
towards an agreement. According to Yahya ibn Sa‘Id, al-Hakim sent the 
brother of his mother (who was a Christian), Orestes, the Jerusalem 
patriarch, to accompany the Byzantine envoy on his return from the 
assignment in Egypt. They both received splendid ceremonial outfits and 
money from the caliph. It was the patriarch ofjerusalem who was respon¬ 
sible for arranging the truce ( hudna ), which lasted ten years. Orestes then 
remained in Constantinople for another four years and died there. F,vi- 
dently the agreement between the Byzantines and the Fatimids left a deep 
impression on their contemporaries. Nasir Khusraw, who visited the 
region some two generations later, tells a somewhat folkloristic story, of 
the pilgrimage to Jerusalem of the Byzantine emperor himself, in al- 
Hakim’s day. He did this in secret and tried to carry it through incognito, 
but his arrival became known to the caliph, who sent him a message saying 
that he knew he had arrived in Jerusalem, and that he had nothing to fear, 
as no harm would come to him. Three years later, however, in 1003, 
al-Hakim launched out on a continuous series of acts of oppression against 
thejews and the Christians. According to Ibn al-Dawadari, the first move 
in this series of acts was the destruction of the church of St Mark, in the 
neighbourhood of the great mosque (jami “) al-Rashida in Fustat. Al- 
Musabbihi, a contemporary, whose account has been preserved in Maq- 
rizi, tells that the Christians built this church without a permit (for the 
building of new churches was not permitted), and that the mosque, 
al-Rashida, was built in its place on the caliph’s orders. In the course of 
building, the mosque was extended until it also covered Jewish and 
Christian cemeteries in the area. According to him, these events occurred 
in the years AH 393-395, that is AD 1003-1005.- 4 

24 Yahya ibn SaTd (Cheikho), 184; ( PO ), 253; Nasir Khusraw (text) 35, (translation), 107; 
see: Brehier, Vie el mort de Byzance, 226ff; see a general survey on the relationship of the 
Byzantines and the Fatimids in the eleventh century in the (somewhat superficial) article of 
Hamdani, Byzantine Studies , 1:169, 1974; al-Rashida: Ibn al-Dawadari, 270; MaqrizI, 
Khitat, III, 243f, 400; see also idem , Itti'az, II, 44, where the editor quotes a manuscript of 
al-Nuwayrl, and also information on the obliteration ofthe cemeteries in Fustat, as well as 
additional details on the al-Rashida mosque; Yahya (Cheikho), 186, mentions that a 


37i 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


[567] Apparently al-Hakim did not place much confidence in the stabil¬ 
ity of the pact with the Byzantines and tried to exploit the peaceful 
interlude by strengthening Egypt’s position in the northern regions. 
Within the context of this policy, it is possible to understand, apparently, 
his support of the ruler of Aleppo, Lu’lu’, and his son Mansur, usurpers of 
the Hamdanid dynasty. In the story of the relationship between these two 
sides, there is also an event which touches on Palestine: Murtada al-Dawla 
Mansur b. Lu’lu’ sent his two sons to al-Hakim, who gave them large 
amounts of money and also granted them ( aqta'huma ) seven villages ( diya *) 
in ‘the land of FilastTn’; undoubtedly intending for them to collect the taxes 
there. This was a year before Lu’lu”s death, that is in 1007. 25 

[568] At the beginning of the eleventh century, there was evidently 
considerable tension in Palestine. One can find expression of this in the 
episode of the execution of Abu’l-Zahir al-Nahwi, who is Mahmud b. 
Muhammad. The episode is described in the following manner by Ibn 
al-QalanisI: Abu Zahir Mahmud b. Muhammad al-Nahwi originally 
came from Baghdad and arrived in Egypt in AH 393, which is AD 1003. 
He was appointed to the office (dtwari) dealing with the affairs of the Hijaz. 
Afterwards, he was sent to Palestine, where he instilled fear and terror in 
the hearts of the population. In Ramla he gathered together all the artisans 
and merchants and compelled them, by using beating and torture, to pay 
200,000 dinars. He afterwards sent his representatives to Damascus and 
Tiberias and the ports and ordered them to behave exactly as he had in 
Ramla. Among the multitude of the dispossessed, there was a Christian 
who had been a retainer of the caliph’s sister, Sitt al-Mulk. He wrote to her 
complaining of the oppression and wickedness of Ibn al-Nahwi. She 
promptly used the considerable influence she had on her brother, describ¬ 
ing to him the behaviour of Ibn al-Nahwi and appealing to him to put an 
end to these acts, which were not in keeping with the traditions of the 
caliphs, his forefathers. Then al-Hakim wrote a secret letter to Wuhayd, 
the governor of Ramla, which said: ‘Oh, Wuhayd. May God grant you 
peace! The moment you read this letter arrest Mahmud b. Muhammad - 
may God grant him mercy - and send him with someone trustworthy to 
the High Gate, God be willing. ’ When al-Hakim’s sister saw this order, 
she argued with her brother: ‘Oh, commander of the believers! And who 
is this dog, to whom you would render him such honour as to bring him 
before your majesty, the bowels of the earth is the place he is worthy of. ’ 

Coptic (Ya‘qubl) church is being referred to, which was in ruins and which the Copts 

wished to reconstruct; according to Baybars, 283a (I do not know from what source he 

took this) al-Hakim built the jdmi* al~Rashida to fulfil the will of one of his slave-girls who 

died; the jdmi" was called al-Rashida after that slave-girl. 

25 Ibn-al-‘AdIm, Zubda, I, 198; cf. the article Hamdanids by M. Canard, EP, III, 130. 


372 



THE CRUELTIES OF AL-HAKIM [SECS. 566-576] 

Then al-Hakim took the letter and added: ‘on the contrary, cut off his head 
and send it’, and sealed the letter with three seals, and called Sa'id b. 
Ghayyath, who was in charge of the mail and gave it to him, and the latter 
immediately hurried past the hundred parasangs between al-Qahira and 
Ramla and gave the letter to Wuhayd, who was Ibn al-NahwI’s best 
friend. When he read the letter, he ordered his assistant Durrl, an Arme¬ 
nian in charge of supplies and a cruel and tough man, to ride to Mahmud, 
who was encamped behind Ramla, ask permission to see him, convey 
greetings on his behalf, and ask him to ride to him to read a letter which 
had arrived from ‘his majesty, the ruler’. If he says that it is not his 
(Wuhayd’s) custom, then tell him that this is the order stated in the letter. 
When Ibn al-NahwI was brought to him, Wuhayd sent one ofhis courtiers 
and the man in charge of intelligence (sahib al-khabar) in Ramla, who 
dismounted Ibn al-Nahwi and killed him in the textile market (suq al-bazz) 
in Ramla, and after the local cadi and other witnesses confirmed in writing 
that this was indeed the head of Ibn al-Nahwi, sent it via the same man in 
charge of mail to the caliph. This episode seems to have occurred in ca. 
1005. 26 

[569] A short time after this, an event of much greater impact occurred, 
which some view as the height of al-Hakim’s acts of extreme cruelty, and 
that is the destruction of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. According to 
Yahya ibn Sa‘id’s description, al-Hakim issued the destruction order to 
Yarukh (who is Yarukhtakin, Ya'qub ibn Killis’ son-in-law) in Ramla. 
Yarukh sent his son Yusuf and al-Husayn b. Zahir al-Wazzan, and with 
them also Abu’l-Fawaris al-Dayf. They dismantled the Church of the 
Resurrection to its very foundations, apart from what could not be de¬ 
stroyed or pulled up, and they also destroyed the Golgotha and the Church 
of St Constantine and all that they contained, as well as all the sacred 
grave-stones. They even tried to dig up the graves and wipe out all traces 
of their existence. Indeed they broke and uprooted most of them. They 
also laid waste to a convent in the neighbourhood; its name is unclear (dayr 
al-sry, perhaps this is garbled). The authorities took all the other property 
belonging to the Church of the Holy Sepulchre and its pious foundations 
(awqajha), and all its furnishings and treasures. According to Yahya ibn 
Sa'id, the destruction began on Tuesday, 5 Safar in the year AH 400, that is 
28 September AD 1009; but according to the Muslim sources, it was in AH 
398, 17 September AD 1007. William of Tyre points out in his chronicle 
that the renovation of the church was finished during the lifetime of the 
patriarch Nicephorus, in 1048, after having been in ruins for thirty-seven 
years, which means that the destruction had taken place in 

26 See Ibn al-Qalanisi, 58-61; Mughrib, V, 56, where the date ofhis execution - AH 393 - is 

incorrect, this is actually the year Ibn al-Nahwi first arrived in Egypt. 


373 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


1011. Most of the Muslim sources view the destruction as a reaction to its 
magnificence and the fact that it was a world centre for Christian pilgrims, 
among them many Christians from Egypt; to the splendid processions 
that were held in the streets ofjerusalem, and to the ‘Paschal fire’ (a matter 
I shall describe in the chapter on Christians). From Maqrizi’s account, we 
can read between the lines that at the same time that the churches were 
being destroyed, the Byzantines were damaging the great mosque (the 
jdmi *) in Constan tinople (but it is not clear how), for in speaking of the 
truce with the Byzantines which took place in AH 418 (AD 1027), he 
points out that in the mosques in Byzantine cities, prayers for the Fatimid 
caliph (al-Hakim’s son, al-Zahir) were reintroduced, the jami' was again 
opened in Constantinople’, and a mu’adhdhin was reinstated. At the same 
time, al-Zahir gave back the Church of the Resurrection in Jerusalem and 
cancelled the decree of forced conversion to Islam. Al-Hakim’s behaviour 
is even more surprising when one remembers that he (and his sister) had a 
Christian mother, and that two of his mother’s brothers were patriarchs, 
one in Palestine and the other in Alexandria. His wazir at the time of his 
decrees and acts of destruction was a Christian, Mansur ibn ‘Abdun. 
According to Sawirus ibn MuqaffY, even the scribe who wrote the 
caliph's order (‘make its sky equal to its ground and its length to its 
breadth’) was a Nestorian Christian, Ibn Shinn (another but less likely 
version: Ibn Shitrin). He became ill and died out of sorrow. 

We find interesting indirect evidence in the letter which Yefet b. David 
b. Shekhania wrote from Tyre to his father in Fustat. He asks his father to 
write to him about the bamot (‘high places’, Biblical), that is, the churches 
(in Fustat); and it is obvious from the letter that they still had not issued 
decrees to pull down the churches in Tyre, for ‘the ‘arelun (the uncircum¬ 
cised) pray here in the bamot'. 27 

27 Yahya ibn SaTd ( PO), 283f. Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, IX, 208f; Ibn al-jawzl, Muntazam, VII, 
239; Sibtibn al-jawzl, Mir’ah (BM Or 6419), 189b ff; MaqrizI, Khitat, II, 162; idem, Itti'az, 
II, 176; idem, Khitat, III, 250f, where it appears that the destruction occurred in Rajab AH 
398, March AD 1008; see there on the appointment of Ibn‘Abdun; cf. on the matter of the 
jdmi' in Byzantium: Majid, Zuhur, 140f, who offers the assumption (which is not plausible 
at all) that the major aim of the destruction of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre was to 
deprive the Byzantines of any justification for invading Palestine to defend the Holy 
Sepulchre; Sawirus II (2), 128; cf. Renaudot, 391, who read here: Ebn Chaterin; but in the 
description of Ibn al-Qalanisi, 67f, the scribe was called Bishr b. Sur. To the list of 
executors of the destruction, Ibn al-Qalanisi also added Ahmad b. Ya'qub, leader of the 
IsmaTHs in Palestine (the da‘t)\ and Ibn al-jawzl (above) copied from him; according to him 
the intention of the destruction became known to the Christians injerusalem in good time 
and they managed to take all the valuables out of the buildings; DhahabI, ‘Ihar, 66; GhazI 
ibn al-Wasitl, in: Gottheil, JAOS, 14(1921), 395 (who has an impossible date, 17 Sha‘ban 
AH 391, which is 12 July AD 1001); Ibn Kathlr, Biddya, XI, 339; Yafi‘1, II, 449; ‘Ulayml, 
268; see William of Tyre in RHC (Occ.), I, 19f; Cedrenus in MPG, vol. 122, 189 (= ed. 
Bonn, II, 456), attributes the action toal-‘AzIz, but the date is the same as that of Yahya ibn 
SaTd, AD 1009 (6518 ‘of the creation’). Yefet b. David: 316 , lines 11, 14. Le Quien, III, 


374 



THE CRUELTIES OF AL-HAKIM [SECS. 566-576) 

[570] It seems that the destruction of the churches at the Holy Sepulchre 
marked the beginning of a whole series of acts of oppression against the 
Christian population, which according to reliable sources, extended to 
coercion to convert to Islam. In Fustat itself al-Hakim ordered the de¬ 
struction of two other churches standing near the church of St Mark one 
belonging to the Copts (Ya'qubis) and the other to the Nestorians. It 
seems, however, that this persecution of the Christians began after 1009, 
or at any rate, not before 1007, for in that year, the Christians in Egypt, 
according to Yahya ibn Sa'id were in the midst of a burning division over 
the date of Easter. They disagreed over whether they should celebrate 
Easter on the 6th of Nisan (the Christian Nisan, which is April), which 
then occurred on the 15th of Rajab, or on the Sunday after that, the 13th of 
Nisan, the 22nd of Rajab. The source of the division lay in the uncertainty 
regarding the date of thejewish Passover, because Easter should fall on the 
Sunday after Passover, and if this took place on Sunday, then Easter would 
fall an entire week later. At the time, however, there were two contradic¬ 
tory computations with regard to Passover, which that year fell on Sat¬ 
urday, 5 April; however according to another computation, its date was 
Sunday, the 6th of April (perhaps according to the Karaite calendar), and if 
this was the case, Easter would have to be celebrated on the 13th instead of 
6 April. All the Christian sects (Melkites, Nestorians, Jacobites) finally 
agreed to celebrate Easter on 6 April, apart from the Christians in Jerusa¬ 
lem, who insisted on celebrating it on the 13th. The patriarch of Alex¬ 
andria, who was, as stated above, substituting for the patriarch of 
Jerusalem, warned the Jerusalemites not to do so, however. His letter 
arrived in Jerusalem on 3 April, on the day that Jerusalemites were to 
refrain from eating meat, in accordance with the custom dating from the 
time of the emperor Heraclius, who banned the eating of meat for four 
days before Easter. The Jerusalemites eventually accepted his decision and 
the only ones who did not bend to his authority were a group of Copts 
(Ya'qubTs) in the Delta, who celebrated Easter on 13 April. 28 

476ff, quotes from various sources and notes that during the oppression, the patriarch 
Orestes was arrested, his eyes were torn out and he was murdered, which is denied by 
what was written about him by Yahya ibn Sa'id, as mentioned above; this was already 
noticed by Schlumberger (L'epopee byzantitte, II, 443), who assumed that the western 
sources confused him with the patriarch John, who was murdered in 996; the truth of the 
matter is that at the same time (1009) there was no patriarch in Jerusalem, and it was 
Orestes’ brother, Arsenius, patriarch of Alexandria, who was taking care of the matters of 
the Patriarchate ofjerusalem, who was indeed murdered in Alexandria on 4July 1010; see 
also: Wiet, L'Egypte arabe, 204f; and the article of Canard, Byzantion, 35:16,1965 (on p. 30, 
n. 2, he quotes from Riant, who wrote according to Papadopoulus-Kerameos that the 
patriarch at that time was Christodulus of Ascalon, which is not correct); see also Tnan, 
al-Hakim, 68-73. 

28 The matter of the forced conversion to Islam is mentioned in many of the sources I referred 
to in the preceding footnote. The destruction of the churches in Fustat: Yahya ibn SaTd 


375 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


[571] According to al-Quda‘1, who wrote approximately one gener¬ 
ation after the decrees, and to Ibn Khallikan, who is generally reliable, the 
general edicts against thejews and the Christians only began in 1012 (AH 
402, which started on 4 August AD 1011). They were ordered to wear 
black turbans. The Christians had to wear a cross the length of a cubit and 
weighing five ratls around their necks; thejews were obliged to wear a 
block of wood of similar weight. They were forbidden to use luxurious 
carriages or employ Muslims as servants, not even as mule drivers or 
seamen. In addition, they had to wear some distinguishing mark in the 
bath-houses, and finally al-Hakim decided that there were to be separate 
bath-houses for their use - all this occurring in AH 408, that is AD 1017/8. 
Ibn Khallikan and others pointed out that the Jews of Khaybar, the 
Khayabira, were exempt from these decrees. Ibn al-Athir conveys very 
briefly, without mentioning the year, that al-Hakim ordered (after the 
destruction of the Church of the Resurrection in Jerusalem, which he 
claims took place in AI I398, that is AD 1007/8) that all the churches in the 
realm be destroyed, and this was done, and that thejews and the Chris¬ 
tians were then to accept Islam, or emigrate to Byzantine lands. They were 
also obliged to wear special distinguishing signs. Many converted. What 
Ibn al-Athir has to say about the conversions evidently applies mainly to 
the Christians, for when speaking of the converts’ return to their former 
beliefs when the decrees were no longer valid, he only mentions the 
Christians. But there were also many Jews who converted to Islam, as 
Elhanan b. Shemaria explicitly wrote. However, the evidence of Yahya 
ibn Sa‘id is different. He states that thejews ‘generally managed to evade 
the decree to convert to Islam and only a few of them did convert’. 29 

[572] ‘The Egyptian Scroll’, a rhymed text preserved in several versions 
in the Geniza, describes the events which the Jews experienced from 
Sunday, the 3rd ofShevat, AH 4772, 31 December AD 1011. Thejews of 
Fustat escorted the funeral cortege of Paltfel (in the manuscripts - Puti’el) 
the hazan to his grave, carrying the bier on their shoulders, when they 
were attacked and stoned by Muslims, cursed and even subjected to 
accusations by informers (the nature of which is not clear). Twenty-three 
of the mourners were arrested, among them a member of the yeshiva in 

(Cheikho), 186. The matter of Easter: idem (PO ), 273-277. The chronology of the 
persecution in the article al-Hakim by M. Canard in EP is unfounded. 

29 Al-QudaT, fols. 11 Of; Ibn Khallikan, V, 293f; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, IX, 209; Maqrlzl, 
Khitat, III, 251; Yafi‘1 II, 449; Bar Hebraeus (Bedjan), 204; (Budge), 184, speaks of 
thousands of churches which were destroyed in the Fatimid kingdom at that time; the 
decree regarding the wearing of the cross around the neck was also, he says, a means of 
pressurising the Christians to convert. The wooden block thejews were obliged to wear, 
had to be in the shape of a calf, as a reminder of the golden calf. Perhaps the metropolitan of 
Iconium in Asia Minor, mentioned in 1078 and said to have been a native of Ascalon, was 
among the descendants of those who fled from Palestine because of the forced conversion 


376 



THE CRUELTIES OF AL-HAKIM [SECS. 566-576] 

Jerusalem (‘a member of the Sanhedrin ... the third of the havura’), 
Samuel b. Hosha‘na. The following day they were to be executed, after 
most of their clothes were taken from them, but they were granted a 
reprieve when al-Hakim responded to the request of the Jews of Fustat 
who came to ask him to save the lives of the men condemned to death, and 
he ordered them to be freed and all their possessions returned to them. In 
the scroll, al-Hakim earns many florid praises and even if they are not to be 
taken literally, it is quite evident that these events must have occurred 
before the advent of the decrees: ‘. . . Our Lord who judges by God’s order 
[his name in Arabic, translated: al-hdkim bi-amri’lldhi ] . . . who rules the 
entire realm with generosity and fine wisdom .. . since he loves justice and 
hates evil.. .’and so on. The visit by the Jerusalemite Samuel b. Hosha’na 
is also mention ed in a fragment of a letter in which the writer tells what 
happened to him when he himself was in Egypt. He mentions that there 
was a plague raging in the capital at the time and that he lost his three sons 
and his daughter there. Shemaria ha-rav (b. Elhanan) also died in that 
plague. During the days of mourning, Samuel ‘the third’ b. Hosha'na 
arrived in Egypt. Then Paltl’el the hazan (who is also mentioned in the 
Egyptian Scroll) fell victim to the plague. The blame for which the Jews 
were denounced was that they had borne the corpse on their hands 
(perhaps it was forbidden because of the plague?). The ‘informers’ were 
‘the pagans’, which probably meant the Christians. The writer himself 
and also Samuel ‘the third’ were among the twenty-three who were 
arrested and they were incarcerated in the ‘jail of the blood prisoners’ 
where people condemned to die were held. At the end of the fragment, we 
find the matter of their being released. 

Direct evidence of the events in the Egyptian capital is to be found in a 
letter from Elhanan b. Shemaria to the community injerusalem. When his 
father Shemaria died, evidently in 1011, Elhanan was visiting Damascus. 
Because of the events going on in Syria and Palestine at that time, he 
tarried a considerable time on his precarious journey. One may assume 
that he wrote this letter in 1013. He depicts the edicts which had just been 
imposed on the Jews of Egypt as a payment for their sins (‘the guilt has 
grown and the favours lessened for the many abominations’). He men¬ 
tions the destruction of the synagogues and the desecration of the Scrolls 
of the Torah, the black clothing they are obliged to wear and the wooden 
block that must hang from their necks. He also says that many have 
converted: ‘Many have left behind their creed and dropped their religion’. 
The destruction of the syn agogues in Fustat is also mentioned in a review 
of the affairs of the heqdesh in Fustat, which was evidently written in 1042. 

to Islam, see: Neumann, Weltslellung, 40, n. 1. On the limited number of converts to Islam 

among the Jews see: Yahya ibn SaTd (PO), 511. Elhanan’s letter: see next section. 


377 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


It says there that the synagogues were destroyed three years after the 
passing of Shemariab. Elhanan (as far as one can make out, thatis, ca. 1014 
or 1015). Men of the caliph’s guards tore out the wooden beams and 
dismantled the bricks and sold them. 30 

[573] The same decrees were also in effect in Palestine, and there too, 
churches and synagogues were destroyed. Josiah Gaon wrote in ca. 1020 
that ‘the people of Palestine are still busy with their synagogues’, that is, 
with the renewal of the synagogues that were destroyed. In another letter, 
he hints at the deterioration of the relations with the Fadmid regime, 
which formerly helped to support the Jerusalem yeshiva financially: ‘We 
were provided for by the kingdom’, but for the past two years, they could 
no longer ask for any support from ‘the kingdom’, that is from the caliph. 
Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon also observes, in a letter of which a 
draft has been preserved, that ‘we have become powerless from the 
destruction of the synagogues’. It is also worth mentioning the letter from 
the community of Syrian Tripoli, asking Hesed the Tustari to get them a 
nishtewdn from the authorities to allow them to transform one of the ruins 
in which ‘the slaves of the king’ dwell without paying rent, into a syn¬ 
agogue. The synagogue of Tripoli, they write, was turned into a tnarjiz, 
that is a mosque, during the persecution. They mention that in all the other 
places synagogues have been restored, and injubayl a new synagogue was 
built, about which no one complained, and only in Tripoli was there still 
no synagogue. 31 

[574] Rumours concerning the decrees against the Christians, and 
especially about the burning of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, spread 

30 Kaufmann, ZDMG, 52(1897), 442ff; Mann Jews, I, 31; II, 31-37, 432-436; the fragment 
of the letter; 19, see there the various readings as compared with Mann, and see his 
discussion ibid., I, 28f, 32. The man referred to is Palti’el ha-hazan b. Ephraim b. Tarasun; 
Ephraim’s father was a pamas in Fustat. Elhanan’s letter; 26, lines 31ff. The piyyut written 
by Elhanan (Dropsie 312) which Davidson, Poznanski and Mann assumed was referring 
to these persecutions, was in fact directed against the Karaites, as was proven by Abram¬ 
son, Ba-merkazim, 133ff; see there the references and the piyyiit itself. The survey on the 
heqdesh, see: Gil, Documents, 138 (document No. 3, consisting of the following fragments: 
TS Ar. Box 18 [1], f. 35; TS 20.96: ENA 2738, f. 1); on the rebuilding of the synagogue ‘of 
the Jerusalemites’ see ibid. , 95f, and the documents printed there in the continuation. See 
alsoGoitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 300, 591, n. 1, and therein proofthat community life 
in Fustat had returned to normal by 1016, that is after some three years. See Synaxaire arabe 
jacobite, 211f, 560f, with the story of the miracle of the monk who was saved from 
execution in al-Hakim’s day because the beasts of prey to which he was thrown refused to 
touch him. Al-Hakim tried to win him over by promising that he would be appointed 
head judge ( qadi’l-qudah ) if he would become a Muslim. According to this source, the 
persecution lasted for seven years, and according to another version, in the same source, 
eight years and a month. 

31 Letters ofjosiah Gaon: 32, a, lines 14—15, to Nethanel b. Aaron, the banker; 36, a, lines 
12-14. Elijah ha-Kohen: 412, I, lines 12-13. The letter of the Tripoli community: 284; the 
use of the root rjz in the meaning of Muslim prayer, here as mosque, is typical of the 
period. 


378 



THE CRUELTIES OF AL-HAKIM [SECS. 566-576] 

like wildfire throughout Europe and undoubtedly left a deep impression 
on the Christian world. In the West, the rumours ascribed clear guilt to the 
Jews. Ademar’s chronicle preserved the story that the Messiah’s grave was 
desecrated by thejews and the Muslims (Saraceni) on 29 September 1010, 
because Western Jews and the Muslims of Spain despatched letters to the 
East in which they blamed the Christians and told of Christian armies 
going out to attack the Muslims in the East. Further details were known to 
Rudolphus (Raoul) Glaber, who said in his chronicle that the Jews of 
Orleans bribed Robert, a monk who had fled from the monastery, to bring 
a letter written to the ruler (princeps ) of Egypt (Babylon), and that due to 
this letter, the Church of the Resurrection was destroyed. He mentions 
that the Church of St George in Ramla was also demolished. As soon as it 
became known that the Church of the Holy Sepulchre had been destroyed, 
thejews of Europe were evicted from their lands and their towns. Some 
see this as the first growth of the idea of western intervention to protect the 
holy places in Palestine, a fact which has far greater significance, according 
to Wiet, than that these accusations aroused rampant anti-Semitism. 32 

[575] The sources do not supply us with clear explanations for the 
persecution, the coercive decrees, and acts of violence which were in¬ 
stigated by al-Hakim, We also know of hideous cruelties which he per¬ 
petrated against the Muslims. True, it is obvious that the sources are 
biased and antagonistic towards the Fatimids in general and towards 
al-Hakim in particular. A present-day scholar, Vatikiotis, looked for an 
explanation of this persecution and extremist practices in al-Hakim’s 
aspiration to realise the concept of the mahdi, that is, the descendant of‘All 
who would lead the world, whereas until his time, this was seen as a vision 
of the End of Days. One Muslim source even attributes to al-Hakim the 
plot to move the Prophet’s bones from Medina to Fustat. Apart from this, 
the Fatimid caliphate was subjected to the constant pressure of rebellions, 
such as that of the tribes of Egypt under the leadership of Abu Rakwa 
mentioned above, and the uprising of the tribes in Palestine which I shall 
discuss below. Caustic anti-Fatimid propaganda was coming out of Bagh¬ 
dad and in 1011, a strongly-worded manifesto against the Fatimids was 

32 See the chronicle of Ademar (Adhemar de Chabannes) in RHGF, X, 152f; MGH (SS) IV, 
43f (the author died in Jerusalem in 1034); cf. LeQuien, III, 478ff. The chronicle of Glaber, 
see: RHGF , X, 34f; Riant, AOL I, 38f; see also: Aronius, No. 142. Grossman, Shalem, 
3(1980/81), 66, assumes that the eviction of the Jews from Mainz (1012) was also the result 
of the rumours that thejews were to blame for al-Hakim’s decrees. Wiet’s comments (he 
indeed wrote this), see L’Egypte arabe, 208. A Jerusalem Church source puts a similar 
blame on thejews concerning the events of966 (sec. 485 above): the burning of the Church 
of the Holy Sepulchre and the death of the patriarch John in the fire occurred because the 
Jews wrote to the Sultan of Baghdad (!) that the number of Christians was on the increase 
and that their aim was to rule over Jerusalem; see Papadopoulos-Kerameos, Analekta, II, 
299 (and the date there is incorrect — 983). 


379 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


published there, mostly containing slander (perhaps true in the main) as to 
their true descent. 33 

[576] Exactly when these decrees came to an end is not clear, although it 
does seem to have been a gradual process. Some Muslim sources mention 
that al-Hakim permitted those who had been forced to convert to return to 
their original beliefs; those same sources express their disgust at this 
behaviour, which was unheard of in Islam (but the same sources were not 
taken aback at the forced conversion or the destruction of houses of 
prayer, practices which are also forbidden according to the laws oflslam). 
We have already seen the letter from the Tripoli community, which notes 
that in many places, the communities restored their synagogues. Yahya 
ibn Sa'id mentions that al-Hakim was besieged by many requests to 
permit the return of the churches, in accordance with his new policy, and 
they even asked to have their foundations returned to the churches. 
Al-Hakim granted all their requests and licensed the rebuilding of all the 
churches and monasteries in Egypt and the other countries and wrote 
official orders to each and every one, the only exception being those 
churches and foundations which had been sold in order to raise money for 
the regime’s empty treasury. As to the Christians who had fled from the 
forced conversion and gone to Byzantine territory, he points out that they 
were permitted to return, and they did. However, both these refugees as 
well as those who returned to Christianity, had to pay the full poll-tax for 
their entire period of absence. Some two years after al-Hakim’s death (in 
1021), his sister ordered the patriarch of Jerusalem, Nicephorus, to go to 
the emperor and give him an account of the restoration of the churches and 
the rebuilding of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre and the other churches 
in Egypt, Palestine and Syria, and of the return of the foundations. He did 
actually make the journey and met with the emperor for this purpose. 
According to MaqrizI, most of the ‘normalisation’ was only carried out in 
AH 418, that is AD 1027, when a new armistice was agreed upon with the 
Byzantines; the jdmV was then reopened in Constantinople, mats and 

33 See Vatikiotis, IC, 29:1, 1955. One of the expressions of belief in the Mahdl which was 
held by the Fatimids at the time and their views of al-Hakim as the redeeming Mahdl who 
enjoys divine qualities, is the account of the Isma‘ili-Fatimid writer al-Kirmatu; writing in 
1015, he quotes from Dan., xii:12 (‘Blessed is he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand 
three hundred and five and thirty days’) and predicts that in nine years hence, that is in Sel. 
1335, which is AD 1023/4, al-Hakim will bring salvation (al-Hakim died in 1021). See: 
Krauss, Der Islam, 19(1931), 256f; on al-Hakim’s plotting, see: Samhudi, I, 470, in the 
name of some scholars who preceded him; according to him, al-Hakim did what he did 
because he was provoked by a zindtq (generally a Manichaean, but evidently the meaning 
here is merely a heretic). See on the origin of the Fatimids also Lane-Poole, History, 95f in 
the footnote. Mann, Jews, I, 72, assumed that the Jews were then ousted from Jerusalem, 
on the basis of what was said in 412, II, lines 3-4: ‘and they gave him (Samuel b. Semah) a 
place to settle among us in the city of Ramla’; Mann assumed that the writer was Josiah 
Gaon; but he is Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon; and the time is evidently 1025. 

380 



FIRST WAR OF THEJARRAHIDS (1011-1014) [SECS. 577-579] 

illumination were installed and a mu ’adhdhin appointed, while in Jerusalem 
the Christians were permitted to reopen the Church of the Resurrection, 
and a stream of donations immediately poured in for this purpose. Also, 
many who had converted to Islam then returned to Christianity. 34 


The first war of the Jarrahids (1011-1014) 

[577] A short time after the destruction of the Church of the Holy 
Sepulchre, a period of tension set in and there was an uprising of the Arabs 
in Palestine. One can assume that there was not only a chronological 
contiguity between the two events but that the bitterness of the Christians 
was at work behind the scenes, and perhaps even Byzantine encourage¬ 
ment. The fact is that the Arab tribes were in contact with the Christians 
and enjoyed their support. 

In AH 401 (AD 1010/1) an incident occurred which affected the re¬ 
lationship between the Jarrahids and the caliph. This was the flight of 
Abu’l-Qasim al-Husayn, son of ‘All ‘the Maghribi wazir’, to Palestine. 
‘AH the father, came to Egypt from Baghdad, where for a time he was in 
charge of the diwcin al-maghrib (‘the western office’), the office for affairs of 
state in the Abbasid regime, and hence his nickname, while his family 
hailed from Persia. In Egypt, the father suffered the fate of many of those 
close to the throne when he was executed on al-Hakim’s orders, together 
with many members of his family. The son, Abu’l-Qasim, found refuge 
in Palestine with al-Hassan b. al-Mufarrij, the leader of the Jarrahids. 
Al-Hakim then instructed Yarukhtakin, governor of Ramla, who was 
staying in Egypt at the time, to head an army and launch an attack against 
them in Palestine, and bestowed on him the honourable title of ‘alam 
al-dawla (‘flag of the realm’). At the same time, ‘All and Mahmud, the two 
other sons ofthejarrahid al-Mufarrij, were in Egypt. They rushed to their 
father in Palestine to tell him of the preparations and advised him to attack 
the Fatimid army in thejifar, the northern coast of Sinai, before it reaches 
Ramla. Abu’l-Qasim was also of the same opinion, as was al-Hassan. 
Finally al-Mufarrij decided to set up an ambush for the Fatimid army in 
Gaza. Yarukhtakin was informed of this in good time, and consulted his 
advisers, who suggested two possibilities: either to organise a march 
during the night as far as Ramla, where a Fatimid garrison was stationed, 
which would present difficulties for those who planned to attack them, or 

34 Al-Quda‘1,112a; Ibn al-Rahib, 82f; Ibn al-jawzl, Muntazam, VII, 240; Suyytl, Muljadara , I, 
602 (who is upset because al-Hakim eventually permitted the rebuilding of the Church of 
the Resurrection); Yahya ibn Sa'Id (Cheikho), 231, 239, 243; Nicephorus was ordered by 
the emperor to return to Jerusalem, and exactly at that moment, the news of al-Hakim’s 
sister’s death became known; Nicephorus sailed from Constantinople and reached Tripoli 
in Safar 415, April or May 1024; Maqrlzl, Khitat, II, 162; idem, Itti'az, II, 176. 


3 Sl 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


to ask that garrison to send him reinforcements of 1,000 mounted troops, 
who would join him in Ascalon. One of Yarukhtakln’s trusted retainers. 
Ibn Sirhan, left for Ramla to deliver the order to send reinforcements of 
cavalry, but on his way he was captured by the Bedouin. Yarukhtakin was 
certain that the reinforcements would arrive within three days, and even 
set out along the coast in the belief that he would meet up with them in 
Ascalon. The Bedouin under al-Hassan attacked him en route (perhaps near 
Rafiah) and took him captive, together with his wives and children, and 
afterwards returned to Ramla and raided all its districts ( rasatTqha ). The 
Fatimid garrison stationed in Ramla went out to meet them when they 
were about to retreat. Then Abu’l-Qasim suggested they organise an 
attack on Ramla and recruit all the tribesmen of jund Filastln (the sawad, 
that is the province, of Ramla) for this purpose. In order to attract the 
tribes to this action, he suggested that a general licence to despoil and 
plunder be proclaimed. This was indeed a success and the Bedouin seized 
Ramla, destroyed and plundered it. According to Yahya ibn Sa‘Id, ‘[al- 
Mufarrij] allowed the Arabs to pillage the place. Then all the people’s 
goods were taken from them, all the inhabitants arrested and their prop¬ 
erty confiscated. Many were reduced to poverty there’. 

When the news of what had happened to Yarukhtakin and the taking of 
Ramla reached Egypt, al-Hakim wrote a letter of rebuke to al-Mufarrij, in 
which he demanded the release of Yarukhtakin and his return to Egypt. 
He even promised the Jarrahids a grant of 50,000 dinars. This became 
known to Abu’l-Qasim and he urged al-Hassan to quickly decapitate 
Yarukhtakin, before his father al-Mufarrij would be tempted to accept 
al-Hakim’s proposal to bring him to Egypt. Al-Hassan fell in with his 
suggestion. This was the height of the Jarrahid rebellion, which now 
became a war of annihilation against the Fatimids. The Banu Jarrah even 
proposed their own candidate for the office of caliph. On Abu’l-Qasim’s 
suggestion, they decided to bring Abu’l-Futuh al-Hasan b. Ja‘far from 
Mecca, a man of the lineage of ‘All ibn Abl Talib, of the eleventh gener¬ 
ation, and proclaim him caliph. Abu’l-Futuh at the time held the office of 
amir, commander of the city of Mecca on behalf of the Fatimids. Abu’l- 
Qasim made a special journey to Mecca and convinced him to agree to 
being proclaimed caliph. He agreed and even called himself by a new 
name, as was the custom of all caliphs: al-rdshid bi’lldh or al-rashid li-dtn 
ailah (‘the righteous with God’ or ‘in the faith of God’). People of the ‘two 
harams ’, Mecca and Medina, swore their allegiance to him. A rich man 
who died in Jidda in that same year, left him an estate, for the purpose of 
seeing to its division among his heirs, and retaining a portion for himself. 
On the advice of Abu’l-Qasim, he took the entire legacy for himself (that 
is - one may assume - he sold the estate and pocketed the money). Some 



FIRST WAR OF THEJARRAHIDS (1011-1014) [SECS. 577-579] 

say that he also took money of the ka'ba. In Ramla, which he reached on 23 
Safar AH 403, that is 13 September AD 1012, the tribesmen received him 
with great joy and addressed him as they would a caliph, amir al-mu’minin. 
Ibn Nubata, who was the preacher in Ramla, read in the khutba (the 
sermon) from the Koran, sura xxviii, which is the surat al-fath (‘the vic¬ 
tory’; its usual name: al-qasas, ‘the story’), verses 1-5, which speak of the 
wickedness of Pharaoh and of Haman (hinting at the rulers of Egypt) and 
on the righteousness of Moses. Afterwards everyone turned to daral-imara 
(the governor’s house). It seems that Abu’l-Futuh had excellent chances of 
earning the affection of the Muslims, as Shiite leanings were held by many 
of them, and they were inclined to accept a leader whose descent from the 
family of‘Alt ibn AbITalib was unquestioned, unlike the doubtful lineage 
of the Fatimids. 

According to Yahya ibn Sa‘xd, the Arabs in Palestine then reached the 
height of their power; ‘they were from now on the masters of the country 
and dominated all its regions, from al-Farama [which is Pelusion, Baluza] 
until Tiberias. They even besieged the citadels along the coast for a 
considerable time, but did not succeed in taking any of them’. He also says 
that thejarrahids even minted coins stamped with Abu’l-Futuh’s name. 
These events occurred, he says, in the course of two years and five 
months, until ‘All b. Ja’far’s campaign in July 1013. This means that the 
disturbances began (we do not know which of the events described above 
Yahya considers to be the beginning) in Shawwal AH 401, that is February 
AD 1011, roughly a year and a half after the destruction of the Church of 
the Holy Sepulchre. 

Al-Hakim felt that he was in great danger and he now tried cunning. 
Firstly, he wanted to appease thejarrahids and consequently sent large 
sums of money to ‘All and Mahmud, the sons of al-Mufarrij. To the eldest 
son, Al-Hassan, he sent a slave-girl who had aroused his interest some 
years earlier when he was in Egypt. To the father of the family, al- 
Mufarrij, he sent valuable gifts. Abu’l-Futuh evidently felt that his pos¬ 
ition was not altogether stable and that the Bedouin were but feeble 
support. They spent the money he had brought with him from Mecca and 
began to offend him and show him increasingly less respect. He then 
decided to return to Mecca, which had remained faithful to the Fatimids. 
Abu’l-Qasim also took fright and fled to Iraq and later on became wazir of 
the ruler of Mayafariqin (which is ancient Martyropolis, in northern 
Mesopotamia) until his death in AH 418, that is AD 1027, at the age of 
forty-eight. In Muharram AH 404, that is July AD 1013, al-Hakim sent a 
large force, of24,000 of the best fighters of the Fatimid army, to Palestine, 
under the command of‘All b. Ja'far b. Fallah (the brother of Abu Tamim), 
who on this occasion received a new name - qutb al-dawla (‘axis of the 


383 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


realm’). The two younger brothers, ‘All and Mahmud, quickly pro¬ 
nounced their loyalty to al-Hakim. Ibn al-Mudabbir, the katib (secretary) 
of the head of the family, al-Mufarrij, poisoned him on al-Hakim’s coun¬ 
sel, and this happened (according to MaqrizI) on Dhu’l-Qa‘da AH 403 
(May AD 1013). Afterwards Ibn al-Mudabbir fled to Egypt, and there he 
was executed on al-Hakim’s orders. Al-Hassan sent his mother and his 
slave-girl to beg for mercy and even appealed to al-Hakim’s sister to 
intervene on his behalf. At long last, al-Hakim gave in to these appeals and 
even recognised al-Hassan’s de facto authority in Palestine; however the 
Fatimid army, under Qutb al-Dawla, entered Ramla. 35 

[578] In the course of their domination of Ramla, the Arabs did not 
show much consideration for the local population and extracted large 
amounts of money and property from them, as they did elsewhere. Hence 
many of the Christians living in Palestine (and in Syria?) made off for 
Byzantium, most of them settling in Ladhiqiyya and in Antioch. The 
suffering and these flights were not however caused by the Jarrahids’ 
policies, for the latter were generally ready to collaborate with the local 
Christians and the Byzantines. It would be more accurate to see this as the 
result of the insecure state of affairs in Palestine, especially because of the 
savage behaviour of the Bedouin. On the other hand, however, al-Mufar- 
rij urged the Christians to rebuild the Church of the Resurrection and even 
appointed one of the bishops, Theophilus, as patriarch, apparently in 

35 See the description of Abu’l-Qasim’s escape in Ibn al-QalanisI, 62; see ibid., 64, what is said 
in praise of his wisdom and learning, and a fragment from Ta’rikh al-isldm of DhahabI on 
him, quoted by the editor, in which there is also a summary of the events that followed; see 
also Ibn al-'Imad, III, 210; MaqrizI, Khitat, III, 53f; who has further details about the 
family; Ibn al-Sayrafi, 47; Ibn Khallikan, II, 174f; al-FasI, Shifi’, 207. The battle between 
Y ariikhtakln and the Jarrahids took place near jj dariim; according to Ibn Zafir, fol. 59: near 
rmh dariim, and originally it evidently was: near rafah dariim (Rafiah); see also the Samaritan 
chronicle: Adler et Seligsohn, REJ, 45(1902), 253 (speaking of the war in al-Hakim’s day, 

. . and they destroyed the city ofqdstiin [should beifilastin], which is the city of Ramla’. 
See further on the events: Abu Shuja', 233-239, who has many important details, but he 
includes them mistakenly in theevents of AH 381 (AD 991-992); as does also Ibn al-jawzl, 
Muntazam, VII, 164f; see the article Djarrahids (by M. Canard) in EP, especially p. 483; 
Sibt ibn al-jawzl, Mir’dh, (MS Munich), fol. 71ff; Yahya ibn SaTd (PO), 295-298 (accord¬ 
ing to him Yarukhtakln had with him one wife, the daughter of Ya'qub ibn Killis); see 
ibid., 312, on Qutb al-Dawla’s campaign; al-FasI, ‘Iqd, IV, 69ff; according to its editor, 
ibid., when Abu’l-Futuh arrived there, the preacher in Ramla was Abu Yahya ‘Abd 
al-Rahlm b. Muhammad al-Fariql, but we know that he died in AH 374 (AD 984; see Ibn 
Khallikan, I, 283); Wtistenfeld, Geschichtc der Stadt Mekka, 218f quotes al-FasI, and does 
not notice the chronological contradiction; see also Brockelmann, GAL, G I, 92; S I, 149f 
(following Ibn Khallikan); see also Becker, Beitrage, 42f, with a few additional details on 
the affair of Abu’l-Futuh and on Mecca after these events; see further on the Abu’l-Futuh 
affair: MaqrizI, Khitat, III, 251 (he has al-Husayn instead of al-Hasan); Musabbihl, 68, 
notes that afterwards he fled from Mecca, on 9 Shawwal AH 415, 14 December AD 1024, 
because of an internal war which broke out there between the ‘Alids and their rivals (the 
Talha clan). On the end of Abu’l-Qasim see: Ibn al-'Imad, ibid.; Mayafariqln: Le Strange, 
Lands, lllf. 


384 



FIRST WAR OF THE JARRAHIDS (1011-1014) [SECS. 577-579] 

Ramadan AH 402 (April AD 1012). We learn from Yahya that the patri¬ 
arch Theophilus died in Ramadan AH 410 (January AD 1020), after 
serving in this office for eight years. We can also see in this appointment 
evidence of the strong connection between thejarrahids and the Christians 
in Palestine, a link that would also be expressed in subsequent events. 
When the Fatimid army under the command of Qutb al-Dawla was 
stationed in Palestine, the patriarch Theophilus fled from Jerusalem. He 
remained in hiding for some time and then returned, and Qutb al-Dawla 
welcomed him cordially. It is interesting to note that the Byzantine 
chronicler Cedrenus also mentions Ibn al-Jarrah (Pinzarakh), that is, Mu- 
farrij b. Daghfal, who he says rebelled against the Egyptian regime and 
was an ally of Byzantium, collaborating with its army. 36 

[579] We can find intimations of the disturbances and anarchy that 
prevailed in the area in a letter from Elhanan b. Shemaria to the Jerusalem 
community, in which he mentions his father’s death towards the end of 
1011, as I have already mentioned. His father died in Fustat while he was 
staying in Damascus because of the ‘disturbances and disorders in the state 
and on the roads’, and only when ‘there was some respite in the world’ was 
it possible for him to go on his way. Apparently, he went from Damascus 
to one of the ports, T ripoli or T yre, for he tells in the letter that he travelled 
to Egypt by sea. En route, his party was attacked by ‘vicious robbers and 
vulturous pirates’ and it was a miracle that they were not killed but were 
only soundly thrashed until they were ‘sorely bruised’. 37 


Second war of thejarrahids (1024-1029) 

[580-581] For roughly eleven years, from 1013 until 1024, peace reigned 

36 Yahya ibn SaTd (PO), 297f; Cedrenus (Bonn), II, 495f; cf. Schlumberger, L'epopee 
byzantine, II, 446, 448; Wiet, L’Egypte arabe , 210f. Wiet sees the need, for some reason, to 
deny the collaboration between the local Christians, the Byzantines, and the Arabs; 
Brehier, L’egltse, 38. 

37 See 26; Josiah Gaon is evidently also referring to the events of this period in his letter, 31, 
when he mentions the difficult situation of the people of Ramla, ‘who were at the end of 
their tether from the hardship and poverty that had overtaken them’ while formerly it was 
they who had helped the poor ofjerusalem; Mann, Jews, I, 162, n. 1, assumed that this was 
a Karaite letter because of the use of the word darkemomm, but this is not correct. In 58 as 
well, Solomon b. Judah’s letter to Abraham b. Sahlan in Fustat, speaking of these events, it 
says: ‘now our heart is almost at peace and our soul relaxes, after the horrors which spread 
terror and awe’. It is possible that some of the Jews ofjerusalem tried to escape the 
Bedouin’s swords by undergoing Christian baptism by the patriarch Theophilus, which is 
perhaps the origin of the story of the converted Jerusalem Jew told by Ekkehard of St 
Gallen and ascribed to Notker Labeo (who died in 1022); according to that Jew, the 
patriarch baptised him and many other Jews during Easter, ‘after the revelation of the 
light’ (post luminis adventune. meaning evidently ‘the Paschal fire’ which I shall discuss in the 
chapter on the Christians); see: Dummler, Zeitschrijt jiir deutsches Altertum, 14(1869), 20; 
see also Aronius, No. 148a. 


385 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


in Palestine. According to the Arab sources, an earthquake struck in 
AH 407, the 20th of RabF I, that is 27 August AT) 1016, which toppled the 
dome of the Dome of the Rock. In a letter from Solomon b. Judah tojacob 
ha-me'iitdd b. Joseph, however, it is stated that the Dome of the Rock 
collapsed on Sunday, the 17th ofElul. The 17th of Elul fell on a Sunday in 
AM 4775, that is 4 September AD 1015. Evidently the information in 
the Arab chronicles should have appeared among the events of the year 
AH 406, when 20 RabF I fell on 7 September, and the difference of three 
days is of no consequence in this instance. At any rate, the authentic source 
is naturally Solomon b. Judah’s letter, so that we know that the earthquake 
actually took place on the 4th of September 1015. 38 

Another uprising of the Bedouin, this time with the support of the 
Christians, broke out in 1024, On 27 Shawwal AH 411, 13 February AD 
1021, al-Hakim was murdered by assailants in mysterious circumstances, 
and his son, Abu’l-Hasan ‘All, succeeded as caliph and was given the name 
al-Zahir li-i‘zdz din Allah (‘the victor in endearing God’s faith’). He was 
sixteen when he ascended to the throne. Al-Hassan b. al-Mufarrij, sensing 
the instability of the regime in Egypt, began to cast off the burden of its 
authority despite the rulers’ efforts to gain the Jarrahids’ affection and 
influence them by showering them with gifts and honours. One of Ibn 
Jarrah’s sons (we do not know which) was staying in Egypt on the 1st of 
Jumada II, AH 414, 21 August AD 1023, and was bestowed the gift of a 
robe of the muthaqqal variety (silk interwoven with gold threads) and a 
turban embroidered with birds ( mutayara ), and he was led through the 
streets of Fustat ‘on two horses with gilded saddles’. 39 

[582-583] In April 1024 the caravan of the hajj of the Khurasanis passed 
via Palestine on their way from Mecca. They travelled through Eilat and 
from there to Ramla. They had 60,000 she-camels with them, and accord¬ 
ing to al-Musabbihi, they numbered 200,000 people. The caliph sent 
official instructions to all the army commanders in Palestine, to receive 
them cordially and treat them as well as possible. The people of Palestine 

38 Some evidence of the more or less normal circumstances prevailing at the time can be seen 
in 271, a deed of receipt written in Tyre on 24 November 1019; Dara b. Solomon, the wife 
of Haitian (Khalaf) b. Moses., who is the son of Abu Qlda, the merchants’ representative in 
Tyre, confirms that she has received everything due her from her father’s legacy from 
David b. Hayyim of Fustat. The validation of the deed was written by Elhanan b. 
Shemaria, who must have come from Fustat to Tyre. Apparently it is proof of normal 
connections between Tyre and Egypt. See also 42, a leaf from the notebook of the court of 
the yeshiva in the days ofjosiah Gaon, from August 1023, from which it emerges that 
business is being conducted as usual, as it contains (on p. b) a list of various commercial 
deals and a record of a settlement between a man and his wife. On the earthquake see; Ibn 
al-Jawzi, Muntazam, VII, 283, who has there the date in full; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, IX, 295; 
Dhahabi, 'Ibar, III, 96; YafiT, III, 20; Ibn Kathir, Bidaya, XII, 5; Ibn Taghri Bardi, IV, 241; 
‘Ulayml, 269; the letter from Solomon b. Judah; 54, lines 28-30. 

59 Musabbihl, 3. 


386 



SECOND WAR OF THE JARRAtflDS (1024-1029) [SECS. 580-593) 

made immense profits from their visits. Naturally they visitedjerusalem 
(ziyara ), and were very favourably impressed by the Fatimid regime. 40 
The situation became very tense in September of that year, however, for 
according to al-Musabbihl, al-Hassan the Jarrahid raided Ramla. Solomon 
ha-Kohen Gaon b. Joseph writes in a letter that the Bedouin overran 
Ramla during the two months of Rabf I and Rabl‘ II, that is from the 
middle of May until mid-July. At approximately the same time (the news 
reached Egypt on 4 Rabf II AH 415, 15 June AD 1024) ‘Abdallah b. Idris 
al-Ja'fari, and one of the Banu Jarrah, with their men, attacked Eilat. 
‘Abdallah b. Idris’ ambition was to become governor of Wadi’l-Qura, the 
region between Palestine and the Hijaz, and he demanded ofal-Hassan b. 
al-Mufarrij that the latter lay his claims before the caliph. Al-Hassan 
refused. Then ‘Abdallah b. Idris poured out his rage on Eilat, indulging in 
extensive pillaging, extorting 3000 dinars and a great deal of agricultural 
produce from the city’s inhabitants, and taking captive the women and 
children. A special force was then organised in Egypt under the command 
of‘All b. Naja and sent out against him. Each of the fighters received five 
dinars, and the 60 mounted troops of the force received ten dinars and two 
horses each. On 8 Rabf II, 19 June 1024, ‘Abdallah b. Idris overran 
al-‘Arish and plundered considerable property, before setting the city on 
fire. 41 

[584] The governor of Palestine at that time was the Turk Abu Mansur 
Anushtakln b. ‘Abdallah al-Dizbiri. He was the central figure in the events 
of the next five years in Palestine. According to the sources, he was the 
most outstanding of the Fatimid governors: courageous and politically 
astute, a man of integrity and charming manners, with a sense of justice 
towards his subordinates and his subjects. He was greatly respected and 
appreciated by the population, they say, mainly because of his devotion to 
the task of restraining the Bedouin’s belligerence. In the course of his 
career, he earned a number of honourable titles: al-amlr al-muzajfar (‘the 
commander wreathed in victory’); amir al-juyush (‘commander of the 
hosts’); ‘uddat al-itnam (‘the treasure of the imam’, that is, the caliph); say f 
al-khilafa (‘sword of the caliphate’); ‘adud al-dawla (‘the support of the 
realm’); mustaja al-mulk (‘the realm’s choice’). During his lifetime, al- 
Dizbiri passed through the usual stages which all Turks of his kind used to 
pass, from the time he was first taken captive and sold as a slave until he 
reached the service ofal-Hakim in AH 403, thatis AD 1012/3. In 1016, he 

40 Ibid., 22f; Bianquis, JESHO, 23(1980), 78f, mentions the matter of the caravan of Khura¬ 
san in his article dealing with the drought in Egypt at the time and is surprised that in the 
information on the convoy, there is no mention of the drought; but the convoy did not 
pass through Egypt at all. 

+! Musabbihi, 34ff; Solomon Gaon’s letter: 50, line 28. 


387 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


arrived in Palestine for the first time with the Fatimid army, and after¬ 
wards went to Damascus and Egypt and back on a number of occasions, 
until he was appointed governor of BaMabakk, an office in which he 
excelled. He was afterwards appointed governor of Caesarea, and there 
too he excelled, and praise was forthcoming from all sides. At the begin¬ 
ning of the year AH 414, that is in AD 1023, he was made governor ofjund 
Filastln; but in AH 417, AD 1026, he was arrested because of certain 
accusations made against him, while he was staying in Ascalon. Preserved 
in the Franciscan monastery in Jerusalem, there should be a bill of protec¬ 
tion signed by al-Muzaffar (none other than al-Dizbiri), dating from 1023, 
stating that it is forbidden to harm the Franciscan monks. 42 

[585] In August 1024, after restoring order in Ramla, al-Dizbiri sent an 
army to Bet Guvrin, the estate of Hassan b. Jarrah, in order to take over 
Hassan’s property. Hassan killed al-Dizbiri’s messengers and the latter 
responded by imprisoning al-Hassan’s closest retainers, Abu’l-Ful and 
al-Hasan b, Surur, as well as al-Hassan’s scribe. Afterwards he sent them 
enchained to the fortress in Jaffa, and from there to Ascalon. Musabbihl 
apparently repeats the same story in a slightly different version, when he 
tells of the seizure of two tax officials sent by al-Dizbiri to collect the taxes 
in the region allotted ( iqtd°) to al-Hassan. Al-Hassan had them killed. 
During the weeks that followed, the rebellion spread like wildfire. Al- 
Dizbiri attacked al-Hassan while he was ill and stationed in the neigh¬ 
bourhood of Nabulus. When he recovered, al-Hassan gathered together a 
force of some 3,000 cavalry, forced al-Dizbiri to retreat to Ramla and 
pursued him further. Ramla was put under siege and a battle lasting three, 
days was fought at its gates. At the same time, Tiberias was being held by 
al-Hassan and he decimated the population mercilessly, sacking the town, 
while its governor, Majd al-Dawla Fitah, fled to Acre. At that point, an 
internal family strife sprung up among the Jarrahids, for Thabit, al- 
Hassan’s brother, went over to al-Dizbiri’s camp. Al-Hassan responded 
by sending out a cavalry unit, which overran and pillaged Thabit’s estate. 
During that month, collaboration between the three federations of tribes 
became closer: the Banu Tayy’ under Hassan b. al-Jarrah, the Banu Kalb 

42 See especially Ibn al-Qalanisi, 71-74; see on the bill of protection: Bore, Question des lieux 
saints, 5; Berliere, Revue benedictine, 5(1888), 505, sees here a positive attitude to the Latins 
and concludes from this that it is during this period that the Amalfians built the church of 
St Mary the Latin, a subject that shall be discussed in the chapter on the Christians. (The 
people of the Franciscan monastery in Jerusalem - the Monastery of the Saviour - refused 
to cooperate with me in locating this document.) During his stay in Damascus, al-Dizbiri 
became friendly with the great poet, Abu’l-Ala’ al-Ma‘arrI, and it is known that the latter 
wrote a book called Sltaraf al-sayf (‘The greatness of the sword’), dedicated to al-Dizbiri, 
who showed much interest in his poetry and displayed generosity towards him; see Yaqut, 
Udaba’, III, 157; see the biography of al-Dizbiri and all his names and by-names in 
al-Tabbakh, I, 330; cf. the article on him: Wiet, MUSJ, 46:385, 1970; he mentions among 


388 



SECOND WAR OF THEJARRAHIDS (1024-1029) [SECS. 580-593] 

under Samsam al-Dawla Sinan b. ‘Ulayyan ibn al-Banna’, and the Banu 
‘Uqayl under the leadership of Salih b. Mirdas. In addition, Thabit be¬ 
trayed al-Dizbiri and returned to his family’s camp. Al-Dizbiri’s requests 
for help from Egypt were of no avail, as was his request that he be sent 
1,000 mounted troops and the same number of infantry. Although al- 
Zahir ordered the recruitment of men for this purpose, only a few volun¬ 
teered and no one arrived at al-Dizbiri’s side. Finally, he was forced to 
abandon Ramla, escaping from the town at night with ten Turks and 
eventually reaching Caesarea. The Arabs then killed many of Ramla’s 
inhabitants, sacked much property and maltreated the women. It was said 
that al-Hassan removed from Ramla 400 heavy loads of property, clothing 
and jewellery, and all sorts of goods and fabrics, and caused considerable 
damage and destruction to the markets, until people were practically 
treading in soap and oil. At the same time, he carried on a propaganda 
campaign within the Egyptian army, claiming that he was not fighting the 
caliph but merely al-Dizbiri. He even displayed a faked letter from the 
caliph, granting him recognition and cancelling al-Dizbiri’s appointment. 
Afterwards, he attacked Ascalon and forced the inhabitants to hand over 
his two men who were imprisoned there, Abu’l-Ful and Hasan b. Surur, 
by threatening that if they were not released he would attack and destroy 
the city. This was followed by a second pillaging of Ramla by the Arabs, 
when women and children were taken captive as well. Al-Hassan imposed 
a fine of 40,000 dinars on the Fatimid governor of the city, Nahrir 
al-Wahldl, and then appointed his own governor in his place, Nasr Allah 
b. Nizal. On the governor of Jerusalem, Mubarak al-Dawla Fath, he 
placed a fine of30,000 dinars and also took all the money and property that 
al-Dizbiri had accumulated there. 43 

[586] We learn also of an attack of500 mounted troops on al-‘Arish and 
their advance in the direction of al-Farama, whose inhabitants fled to 
Fustat, in Dhu’l Qa‘da AH 415, January AD 1025. Al-Hassan charged 
against al-Farama at the head of 1,000 horsemen. At the same time, the 
sides conducted negotiations that had begun in Sha’ban AH 415, Novem¬ 
ber AD 1024. Al-Hassan demanded that the caliph hand over Jerusalem 
and Nabulus, and also send him ceremonial attire and turbans of fine linen 
(shush). He sent him the apparel he requested and promised him Nabulus, 
but not Jerusalem. Three of al-Hassan’s brothers who were staying in 

others the diwdn (collection of poetry) of Ibn Hayyus (ed. Khalil Mardam, Damascus 
1951), which includes a large number of eulogies dedicated to al-Dizbiri. 

43 Musabbihl, 47—51, 57f, 98; according to his description, in addition to what one finds in 
the Geniza letters, one gets the impression that there were two attacks on Ramla, or 
perhaps three; but perhaps the same event is being referred to; in Musabbihl, there are two 
descriptions of the attack on al-‘Arish as well, and it seems that this is the same information 
recorded twice, which reached Egypt at different times; see further: MaqrizI, Khitat, I, 


389 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


Egypt (evidently for the purpose of negotiating) also received ceremonial 
robes and other honours from the caliph. In November 1024 al-Hassan 
sent a letter to the caliph declaring his allegiance and informing him that he 
considered himself responsible for the affairs of jund Filastln, that he 
would collect the kharaj there, which he would use to maintain his sol¬ 
diers, who would suffice for security purposes; and that there would be no 
need to send an additional force or a governor from Egypt. Similar 
conditions were demanded with regard to the positions of Sinan in Da¬ 
mascus and Salih b. Mirdas in Aleppo. From Egypt, the messenger was 
sent back to al-Hassan with no response; in other words, his actions were 
viewed as a rebellion. On 25 Ramadan AH 415, or 26 November AD 
1024, the title amir al-umara’ (commander of commanders) was added to 
al-Dizbiri’s titles of honour. In view of the gravity of the situation, 
al-Hassan’s two brothers took flight, taking with them all their precious 
belongings. The third brother, who was ill, remained in Egypt. 44 

[587] From this point onwards, al-Hassan also tried to arouse the tribes 
living in Egypt to rebel, and with this in mind he approached the Banu 
Qurra, a large tribe living in the Alexandria area (the Buhayra). The 
messenger bearing his letter from Ramla was caught by the Fatimids. 
Al-Hassan also had connections to the Byzantine emperor and the Chris¬ 
tians in Jerusalem and it was not by accident that one of his demands had 
been to be givenjerusalem. He also had covert relations with Muhassin b. 
Badus, al-Zahir’s keeper of the treasury. Finally, a letter from Muhassin to 
al-Hassan was intercepted, in which he urged him to go to war, in the 
knowledge that if he should overpower the Fatimid army, there would be 
no longer any force in Egypt that could stand in his way. In his letter 
Muhassin also requested that in the future, he should be contacted only 
through monks, because they were the only ones to be relied on. Muhassin 
was executed bn Sha‘ban AH 415, 24 October AD 1024, and it was then 
discovered that he was actually a Christian, for he was not circumcised. 45 

[588] While the Fatimids continued to maintain control over the ports, 
the Bedouin controlled the roads. In the early winter of 1025, the Bedouin 

326f; II, 160f; idem, Itti'az, II, 151-157; Ibn al-Dawadari, 3i9f; Becker, Beitrage, 44f; Ibn 
al-‘Adim, Zubda , I, 223; Yahya ibn SaTd (Cheikho), 244. 

44 Musabbihl, 82f; the news about al-‘Arish arrived in Egypt by sea. The negotiations; ibid., 
58, 63-66. 

45 The connections with the emperor: Musabbihl, 49. The affair ofMuhassin b. Badus: ibid., 
59f; Musabbihl adds there that some say that it was libel. The matter of the Banu Qurra: 
ibid., 68. Muhassin b. Badus was appointed on the 6th of Rabi I AH 415 (the 18th of May 
AD 1024) supervisor of income (zimam) in Syria and Palestine. This appointment pre¬ 
ceded slightly the outbreak of the rebellion of thejarrahids and we may assume that there 
was a causal connection between these two facts. Musabbihl calls him sahib bayt al-mal, that 
is minister of the treasury (Musabbihl, 311); and see this same information in Maqrizi, 
Itti'az, II, 141. 


390 



SECOND WAR OF THEJARRAHIDS (1024-1029) [SECS. 580-593] 

were found to have absconded with ten loads of apples from Mount 
Lebanon, and intended for the caliph. During that same winter of 1024/5, 
severe starvation was prevalent throughout Egypt because of the low level 
of the Nile, and in Damascus, a terrible plague caused the death of 
thousands of inhabitants. Towards the end of 1024, Salih b. Mirdas, the 
‘Uqaylid ally of thejarrahids, launched an attack on Aleppo, then ruled by 
Murtada al-Dawla Mansur b. Lu’lu’, the Fatimid loyalist mentioned ear¬ 
lier. The city fell to Salih b. Mirdas on 13 Dhu’l-Qa‘da AH 415 (16January 
AD 1025), although Fatimid soldiers continued to hold the fortress of 
Aleppo until 10 Muharram AH 416, 13 March AD 1025. 

The great battle between al-Dizbiri and al-Hassan took place this time in 
November 1024, near the citadel of Ascalon. In al-Dizbiri’s army there 
were 5000 men, and they suffered immensely from the drought in Egypt. 
According to al-Musabbihi, it was decided to allot individual portions of 
bread to each one. Little is said about the results of the battle but it seems 
that it was not favourable to the Fatimids. On 21 Dhu’l-Qa‘da AH 415 (24 
January AH 1025), the Egyptian pilgrims to Mecca had to return home 
because they could not pass through Eilat because of tribal attacks. Appar¬ 
ently al-Dizbiri’s campaign started shortly afterwards, in February 1025. 
His men promised they would not take spoils in the Bedouin camps before 
the Bedouin were finished off. At first, they attacked al-Hassan’s camp 
near ‘the city of Filastln’, undoubtedly meaning Ramla. Alongside al- 
Dizbiri were also the governors of Jerusalem and Tiberias: Fath — who is 
Mubarak al-Dawla, and Majd al-Dawla Fitah b. Buye al-Kitaml. In that 
camp, thirty Bedouin commanders were killed, as well as all their officials 
and treasurers, who were in charge of collecting taxes; some also say that 
thousands of people were slaughtered and the Bedouin women were taken 
captive. Few managed to escape. Al-Dizbiri wrote to the caliph asking for 
reinforcements of 1,000 horsemen, and informed him that he had already 
taken jund Filastln and that during the holiday, he had prayed in Ramla (he 
is undoubtedly speaking of 10 Dhu’l-Hijja AH 415, that is 14 February AD 
1025). Nevertheless it seems that there was yet another counter-attack by 
al-Hassan’s forces, evidently at the end of February, when al-Hassan again 
seized Ramla while al-Dizbiri withdrew to Ascalon; and it was apparently 
only in the spring of 1025 that al-Dizbiri succeeded in ridding the south of 
Palestine of al-Hassan’s units. According to Maqrlzl, al-Hassan then fled 
to the Byzantines. 46 

46 See on this drought: Bianquis, JESHO, 23(1980), 70f; see on the events: Musabbihi, 68, 
83f, 89; Yahya ibn Sa'Id (Cheikho), 244-247; Ibn Khallikan, II, 487f (according to him the 
conquest of Aleppo took place on 13 Dhu’l-Hijja 417, 4 February 1027, and this is 
incorrect). Ibn Taghrf Bardi, IV, 248, 252. Salih also seized Ba’labakk then, see: So- 
bernheim, Centenario Michele Amari, 155; Wiet, L’Egypte arahe, 216f; the pursuit of scribes 
and treasurers is also perhaps reflected in 76, Solomon b. Judah’s letter. The scribe 


39i 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


[589] The position of the Jews of Palestine during this period is obvious 
from the Geniza documents. (The documents become more frequent at 
this time, when the synagogue of the ‘Palestinians’ in Fustat was being 
rebuilt following its destruction in al-Hakim’s day, and the receptacle for 
its Geniza was built there.) The Jews unhesitatingly supported the Fati- 
mids and expected them to restore order in Palestine and to maintain the 
security of the localities and roads, A letter from Fustat written by the local 
haver, Ephraim b. Shemaria, contains blessings for the caliph’s army and 
wishes for its victory. Owing to the Tustari brothers, who had during this 
time earned a respected position within the Fatimids’ court, the Jewish 
communities of Palestine had an avenue through which they could exert 
influence in Egypt. A letter from Ascalon evidently, written in 1025 to the 
two communities in Fustat (the Jerusalemite and the Babylonian), speaks 
warmly of the governor of Ascalon (which was a Fatimid base during the 
events), Abu Harf‘, who had stood by the Jews of the town and did not 
abuse them in hard times. Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon b. Joseph, who was 
Gaon in 1025, mentions in his letter (most of which was written by the 
scribe of the yeshiva) that the community in Ramla had assembled and 
blessed ‘our Master the King, may he live forever . . . and also his deputy 
(the wazir) with his large company, whose ways were improved’, and 
they prayed that ‘the armies of our Master the King be victorious and 
nations should bow before him’, etc. In another of the Gaon’s letters, this 
one to Yefet b. Tobiah al-NIli (the indigo merchant) in Fustat, we read 
words of blessing and praise for Caliph al-Zahir, ‘the king, son of kings’, 
and he also praises ‘his dearly beloved forefathers at rest’ who ‘bestowed 
favours upon us’. Further on, he asks the people of Fustat to obtain a 
nishtewan from the caliph (that is, a sijill), undoubtedly an official letter of 
appointment, since he had just become the Gaon, after the death of his 
predecessor, Josiah b. Aaron; similar to the letter of appointment issued to 
the geonim of Palestine by ‘his three forefathers . .. whose nishtewans we 
keep: the nishtewan of his father’s grandfather, and,of his own grandfather, 
and the nishtewan of his father, which should now be completed by his 
own nishtewan ’, meaning, naturally, al-Zahir arid his predecessors - al- 
Mu'izz, al-‘Aziz, and al-Hakim. 

The letters of the Gaon Solomon ha-Kohen also contain details of 
the horrors endured by the Jews of Jerusalem. He is particularly bitter 
about the ‘onashim (‘punishments’), the special taxes imposed on thejews. 
On Jerusalem, a special tax of 15,000 dinars was levied, and a special 
additional payment of6,000 dinars on thejews apart from that, to be paid 
equally by the Rabbanites and the Karaites. The Rabbanites collected 

Mevorakh received a diyoqne, he writes, but the scribes hide because of the military, that is, 

the Fatimid army. The flight of al-Hassan: MaqrizI, Itti'az , II, 180. 


392 



SECOND WAR OF THE JARRAHIDS (1024-1029) [SECS. 580-593] 

2,500 dinars and were left penniless, for they had to mortgage their 
property in order to acquire the money. Many were tortured in order to 
make them pay and there were also denunciations. Both the Rabbanites 
and the Karaites (‘the inhabitants of the Sela n ) were forced to borrow 
money they did not have from rich Muslims. In Ramla most of the 
inhabitants had died and the income from the shops dedicated as foun¬ 
dations for Jerusalem which had formerly been the source for the payment 
of the taxes in Jerusalem, was no longer forthcoming. There was general 
indigence and luxuries were no longer purchased. These letters in particu¬ 
lar contain descriptions of the atrocities and the cruel mistreatment of the 
Jews of Ramla during the Arab domination of the city. Despite the fact 
that at first glance, the inclination is to ascribe the imposition of the high 
taxes on the Jews of Jerusalem to the Jarrahids, it appears after further 
examination that it is the representative of the Fatimid regime who is being 
referred to. This was the governor ofjerusalem, Mubarak al-Dawla Fath, 
who collected the 30,000 dinars from the population, which the Bedouin 
afterwards confiscated. Al-Dizbirl also extracted considerable sums of 
money. 47 

[590] Correspondence of the succeeding Gaon, Solomon b. Judah, 
continues to speak about those events and the circumstances that prevailed 
in their wake. In a letter written when Solomon ha-Kohen was still alive, 
and Solomon b. Judah himself was head of the yeshiva court, he notes that 
many Jerusalem Jews died ‘in what happened in the city’. (Mann read: 
clever, instead of davdr [thing, event], and understood that it was a plague.) 
He speaks at length about the debts weighing on the Jews ofjerusalem 
after they were obliged to borrow money at high rates of interest from rich 
Muslims. Some of them who signed promissory notes have, he writes, 
been taken to jail. In a letter to his son Abraham, who was then in Egypt, 
he mentions that the situation is ‘unbearable because of the poverty and 
distress’; the winter was particularly hard, he has spent all his money and 
also sold some of his household goods, most of the fields are lying fallow, 
and the remnants of the community in Ramla are miserably poor. He 
urges the leaders of the community in Fustat, especially, to use their 
influence with the Tustaris for those who are imprisoned because of their 
debts. ‘The representative of the mighty elder Abu Nasr’ passed cm their 
letters from prison, referring to one of the agents of Hesed b. Sahl 
al-Tustari. More than 900 dinars are still needed, and only the Tustaris are 

47 Ephraim b. Shemaria’s letter: 323 . Ascalon: 314 , which is not a Karaite letter, as Mann 
assumed in Jews, I, 169. Solomon ha-Kohen’s letters: 47 , 49 , 50 , 51 ; Frenkel, Cathedra, 11 
(1978/9), 108, interpreted what is said about the income from the shops in Ramla 
incorrectly; they were not intended to pay the taxes in Ramla, as he says, but to pay the 
taxes ofthejews ofjerusalem. Another letter of Solomon Gaon, 52 , contains clear hints, in 
the elegant phrasing at the beginning, of the distress and poverty prevailing in Jerusalem. 


393 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


capable of recruiting such a large sum. The Karaites still owe 800 dinars, 
despite the large amounts that reach them from Fustat; ‘when this year 
arrived, I had to sell everything that remained in the house . .. and would 
not have thought that the year will pass and we are still alive’. It is possible 
that sometime during the battles, Solomon b. Judah and his family moved 
to Aleppo, because in one of the letters he mentions that his son Abraham 
is staying in Aleppo for a long time, after having gone to the city to fetch 
some objects he had left there. In some letters, he also mentions the 
marked decrease in the number of pilgrims because of‘the conflict of the 
armies and the blockage of the roads’. He talks of the terrible starvation, 
for ‘there is nothing in the whole land of the Philistines’ (i.e. jund Filastm). 
He also speaks of the Muslims’ troubles: the Fatimids undoubtedly casti¬ 
gated the rebel Bedouin and those who collaborated with them, especially 
in collecting the taxes, as we have seen. And here we learn from one of the 
letters of Solomon b. Judah that the family of one of the people being 
pursued, Qayn b. ‘Abd al-Qadir, have appealed to Solomon b. Judah for 
urgent help. Solomon b. Judah responds with a letter to the Jewish 
physician in Ramla who has much influence there, Abraham ha-Kohen b. 
Isaac b. Furat, that he should intervene on his behalf with the ‘peha 
(Biblical: governor) whose name is Abu’l-Futuh, ruler of the place’. The 
reference is almost certainly to the govenor of Jerusalem, Mubarak al- 
Dawla Fath, who intends to punish Qayn for his ‘earlier deeds’, undoubt¬ 
edly the aforementioned collaboration with the Bedouin, but he should be 
pardoned, argues Solomon b. Judah, because ‘he has already repented’. 
Abraham is asked to act on this matter, because of their friendship (‘my 
position with you’) and the friendship between Solomon b. Judah and the 
‘elder’, evidently Hesed b. Sahl al-Tustari. Later, the period of the Bed¬ 
ouin uprising would be referred to as ‘the days of the son of the wound’ 
( habiira ), that is, ‘of Ibnjarrah’ (from ‘wound’ or ‘bruise’ in Arabic: jurh ). 48 
[591] We come across important information concerning the events 

48 ‘What happened in the city’, see: 57 , lines 6-7 (cf. Mann, Jews, I, 106); see further: 67 , lines 
5-10; 75 , b, lines 13ff; it seems that he wrote there about a debt owed to an army 
commander (‘the army’, line 15); 78 , lines 5—6 (‘the terrible, alarming, irksome rumours’); 
80 , a. lines 18-22; b, lines 4ff (the matter of the prisoners); 81 , lines 26f (even the rich were 
in distress that year, let alone the poor); 83 b, lines 8f (mentioning the disaster that cut 
down his livelihood); 84 , a (the matter of the prisoners and the appeal to the Tustaris); 86 , 
a, lines 23-25 (Abraham in Aleppo); 88, lines lOff (‘we, the people of the Holy City, the 
congregation that dwindled and bowed down, of which we remained but a few'; and 
further, the matter of the pilgrims); 89 , lines 6ff (complaints ofthe same kind: he mentions 
the starvation). The letter concerning Qayn b. ‘Abd al-Qadir: 99 : a certain Murajja, a good 
friend ofthe Gaon, intervenes on Qayn’s behalf with Solomon b. Judah. He is possibly the 
father of Abu’l-Ma'alT Musharraf b. Murajja, author of the fada’il, who shall be mentioned 
below. 103 , line 12: speaking ofsomeone who ‘mortgaged his haser , that is, a compound, 
to pay a debt (of 100 dinars?); evidendy this also relates to the matter of the Jerusa¬ 
lemites’ debt (or perhaps to 147 , see below in this note); 107 , a, lines 20-21: mentions the 


394 



SECOND WAR OF THEJARRAHIDS (1024-1029) [SECS. 580-593] 

mentioned in the letters of Zadok ha-Levi b. Levi, who was head of the 
court of the Palestinian yeshiva at that time. In a letter from Ramla, he 
mentions those who were murdered as martyrs, when ‘the blacks arrived’, 
evidently meaning the Sudanese battalions of the Fatimid army. He ex¬ 
plains to Ephraim that he was forced to move from Jerusalem to Ramla 
because of the ‘burden of taxes’ (using the term neshe ); the extent of the 
midda (Biblical: tax, meaning the jizya , the poll-tax) and the violence of the 
dajtars (the tax account-books). He further asks the Tustari brothers and 
David ha-Levi b. Isaac, notables of Fustat, to intervene with the rulers, for 
the harassment of jews still continues in Ramla and they are assaulted 
‘whenever they go to the market-place to look for a livelihood’; they are 
evicted from their houses (evidently to house the military) and their 
appeals to ‘the officer who is prince of the armies’ (al-Dizbiri?) are made in 
vain. In a letter to Ephraim b. Shemaria he asks for help for the Baghdadi 
cantor Rawh ha-Kohen b. Pinhas, a pilgrim to Jerusalem who, when he 
wanted to return to his own country, was taken captive by the Bedouin 
and robbed of all he possessed, but who luckily was left alive. The people 
of Palestine could not come to his aid because they had all become 
impoverished ‘for in all of Palestine no community remained which could 
help except the people of Tyre’. And he calls the events ‘a bad edict on the 
land of the Philistines’ (that is, jund Filastin). Apparently, one of the 
results of the uprising was that the Jews who lived in villages or small 
towns were forced to find refuge in the cities, as is evident from the 
version: ‘from your brethren, the community of Gaza and those who fled 
to it’ found in the signature of a letter from this community to the Fustat 
court. Similarly, in a letter from Tiberias, written by the leader of the 
community, Hillel he-haver b.Yeshu'a ha-hazdi i, evidently to Sahlan b. 
Abraham in Fustat, reference is made to ‘the disruption of the roads and 
the change of rulers’. The events led to the destruction ‘of the place’ 


grave events in Ramla; there in lines 12-15 he speaks of changes in the laws of deposits in 
Ramla, and of the ‘quarrel' which occurred there, and it seems that here, too, he is 
speaking of the extraction of money; 110, lines 9—11; he mentions their misadventures and 
confirms the receipt of a donation of ten dinars, intended to be used towards the sum 
needed to ransom the people imprisoned because of debt (ibid,, lines 14fl). ‘Days of the son 
of the wound’; 147, b, line 4; then Solomon b. Judah’s son-in-law, Manasseh ha-Kohen b. 
Abraham, was ‘caught’, that is, he was jailed because he could not pay the sum imposed on 
him, and see there in the continuation; cf. also Gil, ha-Tustarm, 50ff. Abraham b. 
Solomon Gaon b. Judah was visiting Egypt during this period, as appears from the letters 
reviewed above, in order to get urgent financial aid and deal with the matter of the 
prisoners. In TS 24.29, a letter ofjoseph ha-Kohen, thejudge of Alexandria, on behalf of 
‘the two congregations of No’ Ammon’, to Ephraim b. Shemaria in Fustat, the writer 
explains why they could not obtain the money to ransom the prisoners: ‘the community 
was busy with the needs of his honour, the great and holy Lord and Master Abraham 
he-haver, son of our Lord the Gaon’. 


395 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


(house?) of the lepers of Tiberias, and when ‘the armies over them de¬ 
creased’, they sent out envoys to recruit help. 49 

[592] In the campaign early in the year 1025, the tribes in Palestine 
suffered an overwhelming defeat and the Fatimid army returned to govern 
there. However, it seems that despite the confrontation, links were again 
renewed between the Bedouin and the Fatimid rulers. As we have already 
seen, al-Dizbiri fell out of favour due to thejarrahids’ accusations against 
him, and he was imprisoned and brought to Egypt in 1026. The tribes of 
the north still posed a threat to the Fatimid regime, however, in the person 
of Salih b. Mirdas and the ‘Uqaylids who ruled in Aleppo, and the Banu 
Kalb, under the leadership of Sinan b. ‘Ulayyan, who threatened Da¬ 
mascus. This last concern, however, ceased to exist with the death of 
Sinan injumada II AH 419 (July AD 1028). The Fatimids’ situation was 
then greatly improved by the new truce agreement reached with the 
Byzantines in 1027. Immediately afterwards, Sinan’s heir and nephew, 
Raff b. Abi’l-Layl b. ‘Ulayyan, appealed to al-Zahir and asked him to 
confirm his status and promise him control of the areas which his uncle 
had ruled, that is, those areas in which he had collected the taxes ( iqta'dt). 
The Fatimid wazlr al-Jarjara’I then decided to send a large army to Pal¬ 
estine and Syria and could not find a better man to stand at its head than 
al-Dizbiri. The army started out towards the end of AH 419, that is AD 
1028. According to Ibn al-Qalanisi, it reached Ramla ‘in ‘Id al-nahr’, thatis 
10 Dhu’l-Hijja, or 20 December. Other sources give the year of the 
expedition as AH 420, but this is impossible, as is proven by the date of the 
battle of Uqhuwana, which I will discuss shortly. A new alliance now 
arose between the Fatimids and the Banu Kalb (of‘southern’ descent), and 
with their combined forces they launched out against the Band ‘Uqayl (or 
the Band Kilab) and thejarrahids (the Band Tayy’). The sources say the 
battle took place on the banks of the River Jordan, not far from Tiberias, at 
a place called Uqhuwana, on 24 Rabi‘ II AH 420 (12 May AD 1029). There 
the war was waged against Salih b. Mirdas, but the Jarrahids did not 
participate, for they had suffered a decisive defeat at the beginning of 1025 
and they no longer carried any military weight. Salih was killed on the 
battlefield from the thrust of a spear; this was also the fate of his young son. 
The leader of the Band Kalb, Raff b. Abl’l-Layl, identified the bodies of 
Salih and his son, who were his allies, cut off their heads, and sent them to 

49 Zadok ha-Levi b. Levi’s letters: 210 , lines 10-15, 40-43; margin, lines 19 ff; 212 , a, lines 
26ff and margin. Frenkel, Cathedra, 11(1978/9), 108, in mentioning this letter, defines the 
writer as ‘a student at the Jerusalem yeshiva’ as if he were speaking of some school; but he 
was head of the yeshiva court. See the discussion on the name Rwly. Poznanski, REJ, 
67(1914), 289, who believes that it may be Rywh, which he found in a document from the 
year 1740; but it seems that it is the Arabic name Rawh; although in 407 Joseph ha-Kohen 
b. Solomon Gaon wrote: Rywh (Nethanel b. Rywh), see line 8 (cancelled afterwards but 


396 



SECOND WAR OF THEJARRAHIDS (1024-1029) [SECS. 580-593] 

al-Dizbiri. This gave the latter an opportunity to chastise the Banu Tayy’ 
as well as thejarrahids. They fled to Hijaz (and with them, al-Hassan, who 
had in the meantime returned from Byzantine territory). The Fatimid 
army pursued them at close range and killed many of them. In the north, 
the Banu ‘Uqayl retreated from Sidon, from Ba‘labakk, Hims and other 
Syrian towns which they had held, while Salih’s son, Abu Kamil Nasr, 
who is Shibl al-Dawla, took over Aleppo and continued to rule there. 50 

[593] Al-Dizbiri now ruled in Palestine again and we find him involved 
in Jewish affairs there. Nasir Khusraw, who visited the country some 
twenty years later, immortalised in his book an inscription he found on the 
eastern side of the Dome of the Rock, which states that a certain building 
was built on the orders of al-Dizbiri. In the Cave of the Machpelah, this 
Persian traveller found a prayer mat which the amir al-juyiish, again al- 
Dizbiri, bought in Fustat for thirty Maghribi dinars, and donated to the 
holy place. 51 


Forty years of Fatimid rule 

[594] The Fatimid rulers and their representatives in Palestine were now 
free to devote themselves to reconstruction. The year 1030 was the first 
year of peace in the country. As is apparent from the aforementioned 
inscription, al-Dizbiri initiated works of restoration and renovation. We 
know of work that was done on the Temple Mount. An inscription in the 
Dome of the Rock is evidence that the renovation of the building, done on 
al-Zahir’s orders, was finished in the year AH 423, that is AD 1032. 
Al-Zahir had also shown marked interest in the buildings on the Temple 

not because of the orthography). In other places it is written: Nethanel b. Rwh, see the 
Hebrew Index. The letter of the Gazans: 219 , line 54. Tiberias: 254 , lines 14—16. 

50 See Yahya ibn SaTd (Cheikho), 253; Ibn al-QalanisI, 72ff (see the passages from al~ 
Dhahabi and Hilal al-Sabl the editor quotes there, 73f, in the notes); Ibn al-Dawadarl, 324; 
Ibn al-‘AdIm, Zubda, I, 231-234, 259, according to whom ‘some say’ that the death of 
Salih b. Mirdas (i.e. the battle of Uqhuwana) occurred in8Jumada 1, the 25th ofMay 1029; 
Ibn ?afir, fol. 64a (printed: 63f); Ibn Taghri Bardi, IV, 248-253; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, IX, 
231; Sibt ibn al-jawzl (MS Munich), fol. 98a; Ibn Khallikan, II, 487f; Ibn Kathir, Bidaya, 
XII, 27 (Ibn Khallikan and Ibn Kathir say that the battle of Uqhuwana took place in AH 
419, i.e. AD 1028, but there is no doubt that this is an error); Abu’l-Fida’, Mukhtasar, II, 
141. On the truce with Byzantium, seeMaqrizi, Khitat, II, 162; idem, Itti'az, II, 176. Seethe 
article al-Djardjara’I (by D. Sourdel), in EP; cf. Becker, Beitrdge, 38f; Wiet, MUSJ, 
46(1970), 391. Uqhuwana is still not identified (despite a number of attempts which are 
not convincing); according to a Karaite source, it was the name of the area south of the Sea 
of Galilee, see the commentary on the book of Gen. MS Firkovitch II, No. 4633, written in 
1252. 

51 The inscription on the Dome of the Rock: Nasir Khusraw (text) 32, (translation) 96; the 
title of al-Dizbiri there is layth al-dawla (‘lion of the realm’); the by-name ghu/ry there is 
undoubtedly a distortion of dizbiri. The prayer mat: ibid, (text) 33; (translation), 100-101. 


397 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


Mount some ten years earlier, before the great Bedouin uprising, when he 
had ordered the construction of a dome on a certain building; the work 
was executed under the amir Thiqat al-a’imma (‘the faithful of the imams’) 
Sadid al-Dawla ‘All b. Ahmad. We find that in AH 425, that is AD 1034, a 
number of domes were built on the Temple Mount on al-Zahir’s orders. 
The southern wall was also repaired, as was one of the passages. It seems 
that this was done after the earthquake in 1033. One dome in particular 
was finally finished in Dhu’l-Qa‘da AH 426 (6 October AD 1035). The 
wazir Abu’l-Qasim ‘All b, Ahmad, who is al-Jarjara’I, undertook to carry 
out the construction work. Another building, near al-Aqsa, was built 
under the supervision of the Sharif (that is, a man of the ‘Alids) Abil’l- 
Qasim (?) b. Abl’l-Hasan al-Husaynl. 

In Ramla, too, reconstruction was going on immediately after the defeat 
of the Bedouin. The city’s wall was rebuilt. Shortly afterwards, in 1033, 
al-Zahir gave his attention to Jerusalem’s wall and ordered its reconstruc¬ 
tion. According to Yahya ibn Sa‘Id, the representatives of the Fatimid 
caliph destroyed many churches in the Jerusalem area in order to use their 
stones for building the wall. He says that they considered the possibility of 
demolishing the Church of Zion and others for this purpose. 

Evidently, during this entire period al-Dizbiri continued to be the man 
in charge of affairs in Palestine, until about 1042, when he quarrelled with 
the wazir al-Jarjara’I. The wazir ordered him to return to Egypt, but 
al-Dizbiri escaped to Aleppo, where he died and was buried some two 
years later. There may have been some connection between his downfall 
and the division in the Palestinian yeshiva (the affair of Nathan b. 
Abraham). 

Characteristic of the relative political calm that prevailed during this 
period are the florid opening phrases and eloquent greetings of letters, 
such as those of Nathan ha-Kohen he-haver b. Isaiah, writing from Tibe¬ 
rias in a letter of recommendation for the envoys of the lepers of Tiberias, 
to ‘Eli, he-hdver ha-me‘ulle in Fustat, ‘and know that we are dwelling in 
quietude and abide in peace . .. blessed be He who grants favours to the 
guilty’. 52 

53 See Ibn al-$ayrafi, 77, and the editor’s n. 1; Repertoire chronologique, VI, Nos. 2328, 2329, 
2330 (pp. 173-178); VII, No. 2404 (p. 3), where one should probably read mamarra; see 
ibid, also 2409, 2410; the amir sadid al-dawla thiqat al-a’imma ‘All b. Ahmad is perhaps also 
none other than the wazir al-Jarjara’I. In No. 2409 there is the title of the wazir: Saji amir 
al-mu’minin wa-khalisathu (something like ‘the choicest of the caliph’s choice’); see Ibn 
al-$ayrafl, 78; cf. Sharon, IE], 23(1973), 215; he notes that the wooden beams inserted into 
the dome during al-Zahir’s time still support it to this day, as they are part of the dome’s 
internal framework. The wall: Yahya ibn Sa'Id (Cheikho), 271; cf. Wiet, L’Egypte arabe, 
223; al-Dizbiri: Sibt ibn al-jawzl (MS Munich), 133b. Nathan ha-Kohen’s letter: 263, a, 
lines 8-9. Further evidence of normalisation which now began in Palestine is the renewal 
of minting coins with the inscription bi-Jilastin - see: Lane Poole, Catalogue, IV, 30 (the 


398 



FORTY YEARS OF FAT1MID RULE [SECS. 594-602] 


[595] On the other hand, this was a time of harsh natural disasters. At 
the beginning of this period a very severe earthquake struck Palestine. The 
earthquake is most faithfully described in a letter preserved in the Geniza; 
it is from a man of Ramla, Solomon b. Semah, apparently to Ephraim b. 
Shemaria in Fustat. We learn from the letter the exact date of the earth¬ 
quake, which was Thursday, 19 Tevet AM 4794, that is, 5 December AD 
1033, and there was another on the morrow, Friday 6 December. Accord¬ 
ing to the letter, even ‘fortified buildings’ collapsed, meaning perhaps the 
buildings of the citadel. New buildings also crumbled and many people 
were lost under the debris. Luckily for the people of Ramla, the earth¬ 
quake occurred ‘before sundown’, and therefore many were saved because 
they were away from their homes. For some days, people refrained from 
entering their houses out of fear, and even the governor of Ramla and his 
soldiers (‘the king’s men’) set up tents for themselves. It seems that the 
earthquake was centred around the area of Ramla, but it was felt through¬ 
out the entire ‘land of the Philistines’, that is, in jund Filastin, in the coastal 
towns from Gaza to Haifa (from ‘the fenced cities to the country villages’ 
[Biblical, 1 Sam., vi:18]’); in the Negev, in the mountains, in Jerusalem 
and its neighbourhood, in Shechem and Tiberias and their surroundings, 
in the mountains of the Galilee and in ‘all the glorious land’ (Biblical, Dan., 
xi:16, 41). One effect of the earthquake was the rising of water in the w'dls. 
Nasir Khusraw, who visited Ramla on the 1st of March 1047, some 
thirteen years after the earthquake, mentions that he found an inscription 
in the jami‘ there noting the earthquake which occurred on 15 Muharram 
AH 425, 10 December AD 1033. Naturally, the Geniza letter in which the 
earthquake is said to have occurred five days earlier, is more reliable. Nasir 
Khusraw also says that according to that inscription no one was injured in 
the quake, and there, too, the information seems to be unreliable. In 1038, 
the community of Ramla leased a ruin near thejersualemites’ synagogue, 
which may have been a building destroyed in the earthquake. Al-Zahir’s 
building enterprises in Jerusalem were, at least in part, works of resto¬ 
ration of buildings destroyed or damaged by the earthquake. Arab sources 
state that a third of the city of Ramla was destroyed, which confirms what 
was said in the Geniza letter, that the people refrained from entering their 
houses for several days and that many were buried under the ruins. The 
jdmi' was also damaged. A section of the wall ofjerusalem (or perhaps the 
wall of the Temple Mount: the source says bayt al-maqdis) also collapsed. 
The mihrdb da’iid and the mosque in Hebron (tnasjid ibrdhim) were affected, 
the lighting ( mindra ) above the mosque in Ascalon collapsed, while in Gaza 

year AH 423 is AD 1023). From AD 1044/5 (the year AH 436), we also find dinars minted 
in Tiberias, and from AD 1070/1 (AH 463) dinars minted in Acre (with an inscription of 
the Fatimid caliph, al-Mustansir; see Lane-Poole, Catalogue, IV, 35, 43). 


399 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


too, the upper part of the minara fell down. Half of the buildings in 
Shechem and Acre were destroyed. 53 

[596] This earthquake and its attendant horrors seem to be the climax of 
a period beset with afflictions and distress. In contrast to the comparatively 
tranquil state of security, an endless series of calamities befell the country, 
most of which stemmed from the scarcity prevalent in Egypt. This was 
the situation for some twenty years, in the fifties and sixties of the century, 
until the Turko-Saljuq conquest. 

Echoes of this distress resounded in the letters of the people of Jerusa¬ 
lem. Abraham b. Solomon Gaon b. Judah, in the forties, complains of the 
scarcity of pilgrims. Joseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon, evidently writ¬ 
ing in the autumn of 1053, describes the distress of the people ofjerusalem 
‘eaten by swallowers . . . devoured by the insolent . . the poor, the 
destitute . . . (the congregation) squeezed and mortgaged. ., At the same 
time, they have to suffer ‘the noise of the Edom masses’ that is, the local 
Christians and the Christian pilgrims, and ‘the five-fold mendacious 
voice, which never stops’, that is, the Muslims and their prayers. The 

53 See 209 and the notes there; Mann, Jews, I, 156f, bases his discussion on a slightly 
erroneous reading, and therefore arrived at incorrect conclusions. Nasir Khusraw (text), 
19 ; (translation), 64. The lease of the ruin in Ramla, see: 229 . See further: Ibn al-Athir, 
Kamil , IX, 438; Ibn al-Jawzi, Muntazam, VIII, 77; Ibn Kathir, Biday a, XII, 36; Sibt ibn 
al-Jawzi, Mir’dh (MS Munich), 105a; Maqrizi, Itti‘dz , II, 181 (destroyed: half of Ramla, 
Jericho, and most of Acre); Ibn Taghri Bardi, IV, 279; ‘Ulaymi, 269; the earthquake is also 
mentioned in Cedrenus (Bonn), II, 511. The matter of the reconstruction of the walls of 
Jerusalem in 1033 and the earthquake of that year, is discussed by Prawer in his paper on 
the topography of Jerusalem on the eve of the Crusaders’ conquest; see Crusade (ed. 
Edbury), 2. He assumes that in the year 1033, the walls ofjerusalem began being built 
according to ‘a new line of fortifications’, and that new walls were built in Jerusalem as a 
result of the earthquake of 1033. In Yahya ibn Sa‘Id’s account, he finds this is ‘well 
attested’. He also finds proof there that the church on Mount Zion was left outside the 
walls, and also, according to him, that the Jews ‘found themselves outside the city walls 
and moved to the north-eastern part of the city’. Let us see what is really written in Yahya 
ibn Sa‘Id (ed. Cheikho, p. 272): 

Al-Zahir began to build in this year [AH 424, which began on 7 December 1032, that is, coincided more 
or less with 1033] the wall of the noble city ofjerusalem, after having built the wall of Ramla. Therefore 
those in charge of building [the wall] destroyed many churches in the vicinity of the town and took their 
stones for the wall; and they also intended to destroy the church of Zion and other churches in order to 
take their stones for the wall; and a terrible earthquake occurred the likes of which had never been 
known, at the end of Thursday, 10 Safar of the year 425 [the 4th ofjanuary AD 1034; the correct date, 
according to 209 : 5 December AD 1033, which was 10 Mubarram AH 425]. The earthquake caused the 
collapse of half the buildings in Ramla, and some places in its walls, and an enormous number of its 
people died. The city ofjericho turned upside down with its people, as did Nabulus and nearby villages. 
Part of the chief mosque (Jatni “) ofjerusalem and monasteries and churches in the region collapsed; the 
buildings fell also in Acre and a number of people died there, and the water of the sea withdrew from its 
port for some time, but afterwards returned to its place. 

Clearly the source does not say anything about a new line of walls in Jerusalem; it contains 
no ‘reliable evidence’ on the outlines of the wall; and there is no proof that the churches on 
Mount Zion remained outside the new line of the walls. On the absence of any evidence at 
all of a Jewish quarter in the north of the city in this period or of a transfer of the Jews of 
Jerusalem from the south of the city northward, see secs. 838-839. 


400 



FORTY YEARS OF FATIMID RULE [SECS. 594-602] 


Spaniard (al-AndalusI) Abraham b. Isaac, writing at that time from Jerusa¬ 
lem, depicts the hard times caused by the ahdath, the armed Muslim bands. 
Responding to a question from his partner as to whether it is worth 
settling in Jerusalem, he answers in the negative and explains to him the 
difficulties of earning a living: in Jerusalem ‘cattle are not slaughtered, not 
on a week-day nor on the sabbath, fowl is not to be had, and it is cold in the 
city for a long period of time’. From time to time the conditions would 
improve, however, as Moses he-haverb. Jacob writes from Jerusalem on 
22 March AD 1053: ‘The situation in Palestine has improved these days, 
for the roads are in a good state and prices have fallen’. Apparently two 
years later, the hard and continuous years of distress and scarcity were 
again felt in the land. According to Ibn Muyassar, in AH 447, that is 
AD 1055, there was ‘severe drought and plague and many died in the land 
of Egypt’. A similar comment is made by Ibn Taghri BardI about the 
following year, 1056. He says that the plague spread all over the world, 
including al-Sham, and every day some 10,000 people died. Evidently the 
continuous drought in Egypt necessarily affected the economic situation 
in Palestine. In a letter from the yeshiva written by Elijah ha-Kohen b. 
Solomon Gaon, in the autumn of 1057, it says that few have remained in 
Jerusalem. Indeed, the drought and the plague continued to rage through¬ 
out that year, and starvation was felt also in Iraq - and in the following year 
as well, that is 1058. According to Ibn al-Athlr, 1,000 people were dying in 
Misr every day (he is certainly referring to Fustat). The hard time in 
Palestine and in all of Syria, especially Damascus, is also mentioned in a 
letter written by Musa b. Ya'qub from Tyre on 14 January 1058. In one of 
his letters ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel mentions the distressing rumours 
which are reachingjerusalem about conditions in Iraq, evidently referring 
to the drought and the plague. In a letter written some six weeks later, he 
describes the severe conditions in Jerusalem, especially because the mer¬ 
chants no longer come there. The heavy tax imposed on the Rabbanites 
(150 dinars annually), he writes, weighs heavily on the poor ofjerusalem. 
The same ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel also enquires about the state of the 
waters of the Nile and the prices in Egypt, and writes further that he sent a 
Jerusalem cheese, sewn into a little basket, with Marwan b. Suqayr, who is 
en route to Saharajt and who promised to send it on to Fustat from there. 
This Jerusalem merchandise must certainly have been very precious in 
those days of starvation. Hunger in Jerusalem itself is also mentioned in a 
letter from Israel b. Sahlun, written on 31 December 1061: a qajtz of flour 
sells for three dinars, or three and a half dinars for the added cost of sifting 
it. From a letter from a contemporary, Avon b. Sedaqa, some four years 
later (October 1065), it appears that Jerusalem was affected by floods due 
to heavy rains. It is quite likely that the hardship and distress of these years 


401 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


were the major factors contributing to predictions of the imminent end of 
the world in 1058 (‘when 990 years from the destruction ofjerusalem are 
completed’). 54 

[597] A significant political event took place between the years 1036- 
1038 (the dates in the sources are not unanimous), and this was the truce 
agreement with Byzantium. Chronologically speaking, the account of 
Yahya ibn Sa‘id is the closest to the event. According to him, the agree¬ 
ment between al-Zahir and the emperor Romanus was based on three 
conditions: the rebuilding of the Church of the Resurrection at the em¬ 
peror’s expense; the emperor would appoint a patriarch in Jerusalem; and 
the Christians would be permitted to rebuild all the churches destroyed 
during Fatimid rule. On his part, the emperor promised to release all the 
Muslim captives. In a special request, the emperor asked the caliph to 
permit Hassan b. al-Jarrah to return to his former status (which is further 
proof of the latter’s connections with the Christians and Byzantium), but 
this was refused. Whereas Yahya ibn Sa‘Id ascribes the agreement to the 
emperor Romanus III (Argyrus; he was killed on 15 April 1034 and he was 
succeeded by Michael IV, the Paphlagonian), and to the caliph Al-Zahir 
(died June 1036), Ibn al-Athir sets the date of the agreement in the time of 
al-Mustansir, in AH 429, which began on 14 October 1037. He mentions 
only two conditions: that 5,000 Muslim prisoners held by the Byzantines 
be released and that the Church of the Resurrection be rebuilt. The second 
condition, he confirms, was indeed carried out; the emperor sent builders 
for the rebuilding and spent enormous sums on it. Bar Hebraeus was 
sufficiently knowledgeable to know that the agreement was made be- 

54 Abraham, son of the Gaon: 141, line 10. Joseph ha-Kohen: 411, lines 7-19. Abraham b. 
Isaac: 504, and especially lines 20ff. Moses b. Jacob: 459, lines 19ff. Ibn Muyassar, 7; see 
there also p. 34, where he speaks of the continuous years of drought, AH 457-464 (AD 
1065-1072) and compares them with the lean years ofjoseph; scarcity also prevailed in 
al-Sham and the population decreased; in Egypt there was no one to work the land, 
because of the many armies and the cutting off of the roads and the sea-lanes; Ibn TaghrT 
Bardi, V, 59; it seems that the drought was caused by the low level of the Nile in 447 
(beginning on the 2nd of April 1055); see ibid., 60; see the table of measurements of the Nile 
according to Ibn Taghrl Bardi: Toussoun, Menwire, 4(1922), 140; correction should be 
made in Hamdani, Ankara Univ. Tarili . . . Dergisi, 6 (1968), 23, who writes that the 
distress only started in 1057. Elijah ha-Kohen‘s letter: 420 b, lines 23ff. Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, 
IX, 631, 636; Musa b. Ya'qub: 517, a, lines 6-7; see further: Sibt ibn al-Jawzi, Mir'ah (BM 
Or 4619), 238a (the year 1056) and 248b (1062). ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel: 440, lines 24ff; 
443, a; see further on the starvation and plagues of these years: Ibn al-Qalanisi, 86, 97ff. 
(with horror stories of the starvation in Egypt, such as the eating of corpses, etc); Ibn 
al-Dawadari, 369, 371 (every day, 10,000 people died, apart from the innumerable 
number of poor, who could not be counted, the price of wheat rose to ten dinars per 
irdabb); Suyuti, Muhadara, II, 286ff (1056-1072); Maqrizi, Itti'az, II, 299f; the additional 
letter of‘Eli ha-Kohen: 452, lines 8ff. Israel b. Sahlun: 480. Avon b. Sedaqa: 502, margin; 
see also Ibn Khallikan, V, 230; cf. further: Majd, Zuhiir, 366. Account of the end of the 
world: Wertheimer, Batte midrashot 0erusalem 1952/3), II, 499 (‘the book of Zerubbabel’), 
cf. Steinschneider, ZDMG, 28 (1874), 630f. 


402 



FORTY YEARS OF FATIMID RULE [SECS. 594-602] 


tween al-Mustansir and the emperor Michael, but he erred as far as the date 
was concerned, which he states was the year AH 427 (ADI 035). He speaks 
of the freeing of 50,000 Christian captives held by the caliph, and he also 
mentions the rebuilding of the Church of the Resurrection, for which the 
emperor sent envoys from among the aristocracy to Jerusalem bearing 
huge sums of silver and gold. According to William of Tyre, the renewal 
of the church was only finished in 1048, that is, after twenty years. 
Cedrenus and Zonaras both state that the agreement was signed after the 
death of the Egyptian caliph (in their language: Amer, that is, amir, the 
amir al-mu’miniti) and that it was his widow and son who sent envoys to the 
emperor; according to them, the wife of the caliph (al-Zahir) was a 
Christian. 55 

[598] The comparative calm in the arena of foreign affairs did not lessen 
the internal discord within the Fatimid regime, most seriously manifested 
in the antagonism between the various armies. During this period, the 
quarrel between the Turkish units and the black battalions intensified, 
developing into a long drawn-out war marked by considerable bloodshed. 
Al-Zahir’s widow, the mother of al-Mustansir, acted as the representative 
of the blacks and defended them, for she herself was formerly a black slave 
w T ho had been sold by Abu Sa‘d b. Sahl al-Tustarf to the caliph. It was 
mainly owing to her influence that the Tustaris earned their important role 
in the political life of Egypt, and it was said that Abu Sa‘d Abraham was a 
wdsita, a sort of appointee over the treasury on behalf of the caliph’s 
mother, until he was killed on 25 October 1047. Hesed b. Sahl, his 
brother, whom we shall find very active in the affairs of Palestine and its 
yeshiva and the needs of its communities, acted as scribe to al-Dizbiri 
around 1040. He was also involved in political matters in Syria, and 
particularly Aleppo, which led to his assassination, evidently in the 
summer of 1049. 

On 7 Muharram 442, 1 June 1050, a Palestinian was made wazir of the 
Fatimid regime: he was the cadi Abu Muhammad al-Hasan b. ‘All b. ‘Abd 
al-Rahman al-Yazuri. His father was a farmer in Yazur who went to live in 
Ramla when he became wealthy. The father became cadi in Ramla (ac¬ 
cording to another version, it was his eldest son, brother of al-Hasan, who 
became cadi) and al-Hasan inherited the post from him. While still in 
Ramla, al-Yazuri became involved in a quarrel with the amir of Ramla, for 
al-Yazuri’s wife wanted her son to marry the daughter of the amir , who 

5S Yahya ibn Sa‘id (Cheikho), 270f; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, IX, 460; Bar Hebraeus (Bedjan), 
219, (Budge), 196. William of Tyre, 19ff; Cedrenus (Bonn), II, 515; Zonaras, III, 590; cf. 
Dolger, Regesten, No. 843 (evidently he did not know the account of Yahya ibn Sa‘Id); 
Wiet, L’Egypte arabe, 223 (he, too, relies only on part of the sources and makes the 
assumption, which has no foundation, that the Byzantines then relinquished their rights to 
Aleppo). 


403 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


was so angered by this that he ordered al-Yazuri to be arrested, causing the 
latter to flee to Egypt. According to an account preserved in Maqrizi, 
al-Yazuri had close connections with the Tustari brothers and it seems that 
it was they who brought him to Egypt and promoted him until he became 
chief cadi and chief preacher to the Fatimids ( qadi’I-qudah and dd‘i’l-du‘dh). 
One can assume, although it is not stated anywhere, that among his early 
supporters there were people of the Jerusalem yeshiva who had strong 
links with the Tustaris (and perhaps also particularly the Karaites of 
Jerusalem, for the Tustaris were Karaites). This is apparent in al-Yazuri’s 
involvement, some years later, in the election of Daniel b. Azariah as head 
of the Palestinian yeshiva. After some years had passed, however, al- 
Yazuri betrayed his benefactors the Tustaris, left the caliph’s mother’s 
faction which they headed, and befriended their enemy, the wazir Sadaqa 
b. Yusuf al-Fallahl, a Jewish convert to Islam, who had been the confidant 
and chief administrator of the Berber battalions (the Banu Kitama) for 
many years. Although al-Yazuri had betrayed the Tustaris, Hesed al- 
Tustari did not hate him. After the murder of Abraham b. Sahl al-Tustari, 
when al-Fallahi had fallen out of favour, and when it was proposed that 
Abu Nasr, who is Hesed al-Tustari, be appointed wazir, he pointed to 
al-Yazuri as the man worthy of the post and his suggestion was accepted. 
Al-Yazuri’s right-hand-man in money matters was a Jew called Ibn al- 
‘Usfura, who was a faithful retainer of al-Mustansir’s mother. 

At long last, al-Yazuri was deposed, evidently because of his connec¬ 
tions with Tughril Beg, the Saljuq ruler of Baghdad. Correspondence to 
the latter was seized in which he had expressed his readiness to obey his 
orders and informed him that in fact all of Egypt was prepared to accept his 
suzerainty. On the other hand, it was official Fatimid policy to support the 
brother and rival of Tughril Beg, Ibrahim Yanal, and through his interme¬ 
diary, create an alliance with the Arab tribes which would endanger the 
Abbasid caliphate and finally bring about its end. For this purpose, a 
special envoy, the preacher ( da'T) al-Mu’ayyad fi’ 1-DIn al-ShlrazI, was sent 
to conduct negotiations with Ibrahim Yanal, and also to convey large 
sums of money to him. The affair of the sharp quarrel with Tughril Beg 
also caused a disagreement between the Fatimid caliph and Byzantium, 
because Constantinople had permitted Tughril Beg’s envoy to pray in the 
jatni' there and to mention in his prayer the caliph of Baghdad, al-Qa’im. 
This occurred in AH 447 (AD 1055/6). Al-Mustansir’s reaction was 
immediate. He ordered the confiscation of all the property of the Church 
of the Resurrection in Jerusalem. As to al-Yazuri’s fate, he was eventually 
executed in Muharram AH 450 (March AD 1058). A short time 
afterwards, Caliph al-Mustansir realised the Fatimid dream. For quite a 
short time, during some nine months, the Fatimid da'wa was imposed 

404 



FORTY YEARS OF FATIMID RULE [SECS, 594-602] 

in Baghdad, by order of the Turkish rebel who had seized power in 
Baghdad, al-BasasIri. 56 

[599] During this entire period, the Fatimids continued their military 
activities with the intention of establishing their rule in northern Syria and 
especially in Aleppo, which was being governed by Thimal, one of the 
progeny of Salih b. Mirdas, the ‘Uqaylid, with the support of the Byzan¬ 
tines. Palestine and Syria were ruled by Turkish governors and the popu¬ 
lation suffered from their arbitrariness and from the continuous attacks of 
the tribes. Typifying this situation is a Geniza letter which w T as almost 
certainly written in Damascus, although there is no indication as to where 
it was written. It mentions the overrunning of Damascus by the Bedouin, 
the immediate scheming by the Bedouin against thejews, and the decision 
of the cadi, ‘the nephew of Abu’l-Sayyar’, to cut off the Jews’ water 
supply, claiming they had no right to the city’s water. The governor 
despatched by the Fatimids quickly controlled the city; he was a Turk by 
the name of Haydara, with the title dhukhayrat al-dawla (little treasure of 
the realm). Thejews of the city asked for an order from Egypt, according 
to which they would be given back their rights to the city’s water; they 
would be promised slaughtering rights in the market; and taxes would be 
collected from them only once a year, on Muharram. Indeed, they suc¬ 
ceeded in obtaining a nishtewdn accepting all three demands, and also 
letters of recommendation from khattr al-mulk (the notable of the reign), 
who is known to us as the son of the wazir the cadi al-Yazuri. However the 
condition laid down by Haydara, the governor, to fulfil these claims was 
the payment of a bribe. Thejews of the city organised a collection and 
added money from their foundations (‘from the poor and orphans and 

56 See on the political activities of the T ustaris: Gil, ha- Tustarim, 38ff. Ibn Muyassar, 12, 13f; 
Maqrfzl, Itti'az, II, 195ff, 203, 246. On al-Yazuri see further: Ibn Hajar, Raf, 190f; Ibn 
al-Sayrafi, 40-45; his titles according to MaqrizI: al-makin ‘umdat amtral-mu' mitiln, and also 
tidsir al-din (‘the all-powerful, the support of the commander of believers, saviour of the 
religion’). Ibn Zafir (printed), 78f (MS: 73a-b); cf. Majid, Zuhiir, 186 (who quotes from 
raf al-i$r of Ibn Hajar, MS Dar al-kutub, Ta’rtkh, 105, p. 85); al-Barghutt, Al-wdzir 
al-yazuri, is a monograph on this personality, with no reference as to his sources; cf. also 
Lane-Poole, History, 142f; Hamdani, Ankara Univ. Tarih . .. Dergisi, 6 (1968), 23; see 
MaqrizI, Itti'az, II, 141: the Jew Sadaqa b. Yusuf al-Fallahl was appointed in charge of the 
affairs of the Kitamls in AH 415, that is 1024. Ibn ‘Usfura: MaqrizI, Itti'az, II, 245; he is 
evidently Judah ibn al-'Usfura whose death (in 1059) is mentioned in a letter of Solomon b. 
Moses al-SataqusI, 490, b. line 10; in PER H 89, lines 1-2, edited by Goitem, Sefanot, 
8(1963/4), 119f, Abu’l-Faraj Yeshu‘5 b. Judah ‘known as b. ‘Usfura’ is mentioned, in 
Tishri 1449, which is September-October 1137, evidently the son of the aforementioned; 
his wife, Sitt al-Ahl b. Zadok b. Mevorakh, ‘head of the communities’, is also mentioned; 
and her mother’s brother, Nathan ha-Kohen he-haver of the Great Sanhedrin b. Solomon 
(judge in Cairo, who hailed from Baniy as). The Fatimid da ‘wa was introduced in Baghdad 
on the 22nd of Shawwal AH 450, the 12th of December 1058, see: Ibn Muyassar, 10. The 
disagreement with the Byzantines and the matter of the Church of the Resurrection: Ibn 
Muyassar, 7; Maqrizi, Khitat, II, 127; cf. Lane-Poole, History, 143. 


405 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


widows’) to the sum they collected. Haydara then opened up the water 
mains despite the objections of the city’s venerable Muslims. He once 
again permitted the Jews to slaughter in the market and demanded a 
document from the cadi confirming this; however the cadi not only 
refused, but began to harass thejews even further. The governor exploited 
this state of affairs and demanded an immediate payment of 250 dinars — 
and here the letter is cut off. This Haydara is also known to us, he is 
Haydara b. al-Husayn b. Muflih, known by his nickname Abu’l-Karam 
al-Mu’ayyad. He was appointed governor of Damascus in AH 440 (AD 
1048/9), in place of Tariq. 57 

[600] Shortly afterward, the threat posed by the Saljuq Turks and their 
associates, who had overtaken Baghdad in 1055, began to be felt. The 
tension that was built up in Palestine as a result can be seen in the episode of 
the lighting system of the Dome of the Rock. This lighting system was 
said to have collapsed in AH 452, that is AD 1060, with its 500 tapers, and 
everyone saw this as an evil omen. It is interesting that the governor of 
Jerusalem at the time was a Karaite Jew, Abu Sa‘d Isaac b. Aaron b. ‘Eli 
(Ishaq b. Khalaf b. ‘Allun), He was called al-katib al-misri (the Egyptian 
secretary). ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel notes in a letter from Jerusalem in 
about 1060, that ‘the governor ofjerusalem is in trouble’. In another of his 
letters, in which he calls him b. ‘Allun, he mentions that the governor has 
already been dismissed from his post in Jerusalem and that he has been 
living in Ramla for a long time. In his stead there is a Christian, b. 
57 Ibn Muyassar. 4; cf. Zakkar, Aleppo, 142ff; at the head of the Fatimid army, which 
numbered 30,000 men, whose aim was to take over all of Syria, including Aleppo, stood 
the eunuch Rifq, whom the caliph intended to appoint governor of Damascus and Aleppo. 
He established his base in Ramla and there negotiated with the Byzantine representative 
who attempted to mediate between him and the ruler of Aleppo, Thimal, during the 
summer of 1049. In August of the same year the Fatimid army started to advance but the 
attempt to take Aleppo ended in failure. During this campaign northward, news arrived of 
another uprising of the Arabs of Palestine, when the Banu Tayy’, who were to have joined 
the Fatimid forces, were raiding them instead. We have no further details concerning these 
events in Palestine and we do not know how they ended. The letter from Damascus: 285. 
On Haydara, see: Ibn al-Qalinisi, 85; Ibn Taghri BardI, V, 300; his titles: ‘uddat al-imdm 
(Treasure of the imam’, that is, of the caliph); mustafi al-mulk (‘choice of the reign’); mu'iu 
al-dawla (‘aide of the realm*); dhiVl-riyasatayn ('the man of two leadership roles’); and his 
father was called ‘adb al-dawla ('adb - a very sharp sword); according to Ibn al-Qalanisi he 
entered Damascus only in AH 442 (AD 1050/1), and remained there until AH 448 (AD 
1056/7). On Khatir al-Mulk, al-Yazurfs son, see: Ibn Muyassar, 8. Ibn al-Qalanisi, 86, 
notes that Haydara behaved well both with the army and with the population of Da¬ 
mascus. He probably means the Muslim population; thus this does not refute the mis¬ 
treatment and blackmailing described in the Geniza letter; on the contrary, this is what 
explains the appreciation and general gratitude he enjoyed, according to Ibn al-Qalanisi. In 
Dinur, Israel ba-gola, l (1), 201f, there are comments concerning 285 that have no foun¬ 
dation whatever, such as that dhukhayrat al-dawla means treasurer of the state; or that 
instead of khatir al-mulk one should read katib (!) al-mulk, intended as the royal scribe; ibid ., 
p. 259, n. 5, he assumes that the letter was written in Ramla (in the first edition - in 
Jerusalem); these comments have been copied by Assaf, in Sefer ha-yishuv, 87. 


406 



FORTY YEARS OF FAT1MID RULE [SECS. 594-602] 


Mu'ammar. The Jerusalemite ‘Eli ha-Kohen asks ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. 
Hayyim, the parnas of Fustat, to meet with the ‘prince of the congrega¬ 
tion’, who is Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac b. Furat, and with his help to get 
a letter to Abu’l-Muna al-‘and (‘the uncircumcised’), evidently another 
Christian notable injerusalem, with the aim of drawing some attention to 
the Jews of Jerusalem with regard to tax and other matters. Injerusalem, 
rumours were spreading to the effect that the amir Najah al-Dawla, the 
former governor, was evidently about to return to Jerusalem, which 
seems to have aroused the trepidation of the Jews. (This letter mentions 
the names of three governors of Jerusalem in that period.) There was also 
tension and disquiet in the north of Palestine. In AH 454, that is AD 1062, 
al-Mustansir sent Makln al-Dawla al-Hasan b. ‘All b. Mulham to govern 
Tiberias and Acre and to be in charge of the two Arab tribes in the area, 
Banu Sulaym and Banu Fazara. 58 

[601] The same tension that prevailed injerusalem during the fifties is 
also reflected in the letters of the Gaon Daniel b. Azariah. In a letter written 
in about 1055 to Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac b. Furat he mentions the 
profound anxiety of the Jews of Jerusalem with regard to the wall, and 
ends with a prayer: ‘May God provide salvation for the sake of His great 
name. ’ The source of that anxiety becomes clear from the account in the 
chronicle of William of Tyre. According to him, the patriarch had auth¬ 
ority over a quarter of the city, by which William of Tyre evidently 
wished to say that there was a Christian quarter in the city (it seems that he 
had access to an Arabic source which said mb', which means a quarter, but 
also a quarter in the sense of a neighbourhood; the word is also used as a 
collective term for immovable property). He adds that the wall ofjerusa- 
lem and its turrets were in ruins as a result of the protracted periods of war 
and siege. The caliph ordered the governor of the city to reconstruct the 
walls and its turrets (moenia et tunes). The governor (procurator ) passed on 
the burden of this task to the inhabitants and a quarter of the finances 
needed to execute this mission was imposed on the Christians. The 
Christian population of the city was destitute and they begged the gover¬ 
nor to lessen their share of the burden but he dismissed them out of hand 
and even made threats against their lives if they should disobey the ruler’s, 
orders. Only by stringent intercession did they manage to get the date of 

58 The Dome of the Rock: Maqrlzl, Itti'dz, II, 261; ‘Ulayml, 270. Letters of‘Eli ha-Kohen: 
449 , 450 ; cf.: Goitein, Mediterranean Society II, 610, n. 20, who quotes from two additional 
Geniza documents; TS 20.187 — a deed of trusteeship written in al-Mahdiyya, in AM 4823 
(AD 1063), in which in line 26, al-Shaykh Abu Sa‘d Ishaq b. Khalaf b. ‘Allun al-katib 
al-misri is mentioned; TS 8.14 - a merchant’s letter, which mentions in line 2, goods 
belonging to ‘Abu Sa‘d b. ‘Allun al-Katib’ the Karaite. Tiberias and Acre: Ibn al-QalatiisI, 
91; Maqrlzl, Itti'az , II, 264; Ibn Mulham was formerly in charge of Aleppo, see Ibn 
al-QalanisI, 86; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, IX, 232f. 


407 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


payment deferred; they then sent a delegation to the Byzantine emperor 
(Constantine IX, Monomachus) to obtain the necessary sum. The em¬ 
peror granted their request but made one condition, namely that only 
Christians would be allowed to live within the perimeter of the wall built 
with his money. From then on, the taxes from Cyprus would be set aside 
to cover the expense of rebuilding the Jerusalem wall, and after the caliph 
agreed, they started to build the wall. Here we have a story of the building 
of a wall within a wall, that is the enclosure of the Christian quarter. 
William also explains that formerly, Muslims had lived among the Chris¬ 
tians and that there were frequently skirmishes between them. The wall 
was finished, he says, in 1063. 59 

[602] On 24 Rajab AH 460 (29 May AD 1068), a severe earthquake 
shook Palestine (some thirty-five years after the previous quake), whose 
effect this time was centred in Ramla. The city was completely destroyed, 
with the exception of two streets (another version: apart from two 
houses). According to the sources, all of which are Muslim, 15,000 people 
lost their lives. The wall of Ramla was also destroyed. It was said that the 
sea withdrew a day’s distance from the coast and that many were drowned 
as they were busy collecting the fish that remained on the shore when the 
sea suddenly surprised them by returning. It was also said that the water in 
the wells rose and that in Jerusalem, the Dome of the Rock cracked, but 
settled back in its place of its own accord. 60 

59 See Daniel b. Azariah’s letter: 357, b, lines 9-10. See William of Tyre, 389ff; see on the 
significance of the term rub', mb': Gil, Documents, 146; cf. on the wall also: Guarmani, 
Gl'Italiani, 18; Erse, in; Peraqim, 121, speaks of the destruction of the southern part of the 
city wall and the shortening of the wall on the orders of Caliph al-‘ Aziz. This is not said in 
any source (the aforementioned does not take the trouble to mention any source). The 
changing of governors in Jerusalem, mentioned above, may have had some connection to 
this episode of the building of the wall. 

60 The first to mention this earthquake was Abu ‘All al-Hasan b. Ahmad al-Banna’; see 
al-Banna’, 239 (and the translation and editor’s comment, ibid., 248). He was a contemp¬ 
orary and told this on the basis of merchants’ letters which, he says, reached Baghdad on 

I Shawwal 460, 3 August 1068; ibid., 240, he tells of another earthquake, prior to that of 
Ramla, which occurred in Hijaz (Medina and elsewhere), and destroyed Eilat as well, on 

II Jumada 1 of that year, 18 March AD 1068. Starting with Ibn al-jawzl, this account was 
copied by many. Apart from Ibn al-Jawzi, who gave the information on the quake in Hijaz 
separately (but erroneously ascribed it to the year 462), all the others combined the 
accounts and made of them a story of one earthquake, and those who took the trouble to 
give the date, gave it as Jumada I. See: Ibn al-Jawzi, Muntazam, V, 248, 256; the fact that he 
mistakenly recorded the year as AH 426 is proven by the Christian date he himself gives as 
parallel to 11 Jumada I: 18 Adhar (March), and this was correct only in AH 460. See 
further: al-‘AzImi, in Cahen, JA, 230 (1938), 358; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, X, 57 (who 
increased the number of killed to 25,000); Dhahabi, ‘Ibar, III, 246; idem, Duwal, 208; Ibn 
Shaddad (MS), 119b; (printed), 182; he is the only one who has the strange addition: ‘most 
of the inhabitants of Ramla afterwards passed to Jerusalem (Iliya) and built it and fortified 
it’; it seems that the version is distorted and it was probably written there (approximately) 
that the inhabitants of Ramla fled to Jerusalem after the earthquake, but that they returned 
and rebuilt their city afterwards, ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, XII, 96 (who also speaks of two 


408 



THE INVASION OF THE TURCOMANS [SECS. 603-607] 

The invasion of the Turcomans 


[603] From the middle of the eleventh century, we witness the rise of the 
Turkish tribes called the Ghuzz, as it was also customary to call them at the 
time. We know them also as Turkmans (or Turcomans), that is, ‘noble 
Turks’, because of their supremacy over other Turkish tribes. Since the 
Saljuq family played an important role in the events related to the con¬ 
quests and other achievements of these Turks, these tribes are usually 
called Saljuqs, both in the sources of the Middle Ages and in present day 
research, although not all the rulers who rose from their midst belonged to 
the Saljuq family. At first they extended their rule over areas of Persia, and 
then they proceeded to drive westward from their centre in Isfahan. In 
1055, their leader Tughril Beg entered Baghdad and the Turcomans soon 
took over northern Syria as well. Their leaders were gifted administrators 
and also excellent commanders; and their advance was borne on the waves 
of devotion to Sunni orthodox Islam for which they fought. They also 
launched a new holy war against the Byzantines and their allies, the 
Armenians. Under the command of their ruler Alp Arslan they broke 
through the defence lines of the Byzantines in Manazjird (or Manazkird, as 
it is called in the Arab sources; in the Byzantine sources it is Mantzikierte; 
and today it is usually written Manzikert), in eastern Asia Minor, within 
the borders of Armenia, north of Lake Wan. The emperor Romanus was 
taken captive and his people had to pay ransom to have him returned while 
Byzantium had to pay an annual tax to the Saljuqs and release all the Turks 
in captivity. 

According to Maqrizt, the Turks in al-Mustansir’s army invaded Ramla 
in Muharram AH 460, that is November AD 1067. Naturally, this event 
has no connection with the invasion of the Turcomans, who were to 
appear on the scene some four years later. I am referring to the state of 
anarchy that prevailed among the Turkish battalions in the Fatimid army. 
We have no details as to what occurred in Ramla at the time nor what 
happened to the local population; this was about half a year prior to the 
earthquake just mentioned. 

Heading the Turcomans’ (the NawakI tribe’s) invasion into Palestine 
stood Atsiz b. Uwaq, a man of the Saljuq court of Alp Arslan, who had 
deserted his master and even served the Fatimids for a time, and it was they 
who had first sent him to Palestine in order to overcome the Bedouin 

earthquakes, like Ibn al-jawzl, from whom he copied); Ibn Taghri BardI, V, 80; ‘Ulayml, 
270; Maqrizl, Itti'az, II, 277, who adds: the destruction of Ramla was final, for it was not 
rebuilt (it seems that what the aforementioned account of Ibn Shaddad intended to 
contradict is that latter opinion, which does not sound credible at all); Ibn al-Dawadari, 
387; see more references in the editor’s note to al-Banna’: Maqdisi, BSOAS , 18(1956), 250, 
n. 5. 


409 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


tribes. When he was already in Palestine, he betrayed the Fatimids, for it 
seemed to him that he was insufficiently compensated. This happened in 
AH 463, evidently in the latter half of the year, that is, in the spring and 
summer of AD 1071. Ramla fell to the Turcomans and Jerusalem was put 
under siege. According to Ibn al-Jawzi, Sibt ibn al-jawzl, Ibn al-Athir, 
Maqrizi, Atsiz conquered Jerusalem only in Shawwal AH 465 (June/July 
AD 1073), and then introduced the Abbasid da'wa in Jerusalem, according 
to Ibn al-Athir. Atsiz earned the title al-malik al-mu‘azzam (the honourable 
king). We find a detailed description of this invasion in Sibt ibn al-jawzl, 
according to whom the seceding Turkish tribe, the Nawakis, established 
its domination in AH 464 (beginning on 29 September AD 1071), and it is 
possible, therefore, that their major achievements in Palestine took place 
in 1072. Badr al-Jamali, the wazir and commander of the Fatimid army, 
was at that time in Acre, and the NawakI envoys who came to him there 
with demands for money, were sent away with the response that they 
would have to make do with the spoils they took in the course of their 
attacks on the Arab tribes and that part of the taxes from Palestine which 
he had granted them. Then the Nawakis began to take control of Palestine 
and set up their base in Tiberias at first. Badr now tried to come to terms 
with the Arab tribes and to turn them against the Turcomans. Army units 
from other Turcoman tribes seized Trans-Jordan at that time and occupied 
Hisn Numan (the Nu'man fortress), the Arab tribes’ stronghold there, 
where they found a considerable quantity of spoils. Afterwards, the 
Turcomans also took Ramla, which they found in ruins, uninhabited, ‘and 
its market-place without gates’. They then recruited tlpe farmers of the 
neighbourhood and set to work rebuilding the city. The olive harvest was 
also gathered under their protection, and it was plentiful that year. The 
farmers’ income was large, and a goodly portion was set aside for the 
Turcomans (according to Sibt ibn al-Jawzi 300,000 dinars, of which the 
Turcomans received 30,000). 

The date of the conquest of Jerusalem as not until the summer of 1073 
(contrary to the date accepted in research of 1071) is confirmed by a poem 
written by Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph, head of the court. In this poem, 
written on 25 Shevat AM 4837 (22 January AE 1077), it says that the 
oppression has lasted for ‘two times two years’, that is to say, four years, 
i.e. from 1073. Afterwards the Turcomans went out to conquer Acre 
under the command of Shukli, one of the commanders subordinate to 
Atsiz who became his rival. Acre was taken in AH 467 (beginning 27 
August AD 1074). At the time of the conquest, members of Badr al- 
Jamali’s family were staying in Acre, among them his two sons. They 
were well treated but the conquerors killed the governor of the city and 
other notables. Shukli pronounced himself amir in Tiberias. A year later. 


410 



THE INVASION OF THE TURCOMANS [SECS. 603-607J 


Atsiz took Damascus from Razln (or Zayn) al-Dawla, who is Intisar ibn 
Yahya al-Masmudl, the Fatimid governor. The two made an arrangement 
whereby Atsiz left Baniyas and Jaffa to Intisar in exchange for the surren¬ 
der of Damascus. After taking Damascus, Atsiz advanced on Egypt but 
suffered a defeat at the hands ofBadr al-Jamali, and Atsiz’ brother Ma’mun 
fell in the battle there. 61 

[604] We find indications of the Saljuq invasion in a deed of compen¬ 
sation issued by the great court, that is the Palestine yeshiva in Jerusalem, 
in a matter of alimony. The deed was written by the Gaon Elijah ha-Kohen 
b. Solomon, in May orjune 1071, and states that the husband, Yeshu’a b. 
Moses ha-qasor (the fuller), travelled to Egypt two years earlier (that is, in 
the summer of 1069); in the meantime ‘Ramla was despoiled and they 
became captives, naked and hungry’. Apparentlyjerusalem was then still 

61 See a concise summary on the rise of the Turcomans: Von Grunebaum, Classical Islam, 
153-156. On the name Manzikert and its various versions cf.: Ben Horin, Kiryat Sefer, 
24(1947/8), 112. On the names Ghuzz, Turcomans, see the article by Kafesoglu, Oriens, 
11:146, 1958. Good surveys on the Saljuqs: Prawer, Ha-s_alvamm, I, 20-34; Cahen, in: 
History of the Crusaders, 139ff; see particularly on the religious factor in their wars: Sivan, 
L'Islam et la croisade, 15-20. The invasion of Ramla by Turkish battalions, see: MaqrizI, 
Itti'az, II, 275; the article Atsiz (by C. Cahen) in EP. The Turcoman invasion: Ibn al-jawzl, 
Muntazam, VIII, 284 (the news of the conquest of Jerusalem reached Baghdad on Safar 
466, August 1073, and it was said that the city was taken on Shawwal 465, June-July 1073); 
Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, X, 68, 88; MaqrizI, Itti'az, II, 310, 314f; Sibt ibn al-jawzl (ed. 
Suwaym), 169; Jerusalem surrendered without a battle, according to him, because the 
governor of the city was also a Turk; see ibid., 171-175, with a more detailed story of the 
capture of Acre and the taking captive ofBadr al-Jamall’s family; Shukll quarrelled with 
Atsiz because of the large amount of spoils he amassed in Acre; in Ramadan AH 467, 
April-May AD 1075, Atsiz overcame Shukll and chased him out of Acre; eventually he 
was caught and executed in Tiberias as he was about to reach an agreement with the 
Fatimids. Atsiz then presided over the slaughter of the population of Tiberias and the city 
was pillaged. Due to these internal conflicts, the Fatimids succeeded in taking Acre again 
and they sent Jawhar al-Madanl as governor there. The poem of Solomon ha-Kohen b. 
Joseph: TS Loan 174, a, lines 16ff and b, bottom; printed by: Greenstone, AJSLL, 
22(1905/6), 159-163; Greenstone, ibid., 172, n. 143, assumed that there was a hint in this 
poem of the two Saljuq attacks on Jerusalem, according to him, in 463 of the hijra (AD 
1070/1) - during the conquest, and in AH 469 (AD 1076/7), while suppressing the 
inhabitants’ uprising (see also ibid., 151); the uprising, of which I shall speak below, took 
place after the writing of the poem, however, and this invalidates his views, inclusive of 
what he says of the inexactitude in that poem. It is not clear on what Frenkel, Cathedra, 21 
(1981/2), 59, bases his claim that there were two conquests ofjerusalem, in 1071 and 1073, 
apart from his assumption that the poem of Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph ‘says simply that 
Jerusalem was conquered twice within two years’; but the poem does not say this, and this 
is only his own interpretation. The poem says ‘they were oppressed two years twice’ and 
this is open to a number of interpretations. See also: DhahabI, ‘Ibar, III, 252; Ibn Kathlr, 
Bidaya, XII, 113; Ibn ‘Adlm, Zubda, II, 31; ‘Azlml, 361; Ibn Taghri BardI, V, 87, 101; Ibn 
al-QalanisI, 108f,j and in the editor’s note there, the account of the deal in Damascus, 
according to al-Dhahabl; see also Ibn Khaldun, ‘Ibar, III, 981. See further on the conquest 
of the cities of northern Palestine and Damascus: Ibn ‘Asakir, II, 331; Ibn Muyassar, 23; 
according to Majid, Zuhdr, 191, Atsiz took Jerusalem only in 1076, which is certainly an 
error. The retiring Turcoman commander is called in the Arab sources Shikll, while the 
correct name was evidently Shughlu, or Shuglu; cf. Cahen, Byzantion, 18(1948), 35. 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


under siege and as yet unconquered. At about the same time, on 15 April 
of the same year, ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, the Jerusalem parnas, wrote to 
Abiathar ha-Kohen b. Elijah Gaon in Fustat. He expresses his regret that 
he has had to postpone his own journey to Fustat, and mentions the state of 
emergency (some half a year before the time noted by Sibt ibn al-Jawzi). 
Rumours reached him daily; ‘there is fear and hunger’; ‘Tyre is closed, no 
one can leave Jerusalem for Ramla, and all the roads are endangered’; and 
as it is written: ‘neither was there any peace to him that went out or came 
in..(Zech., viii:10). He asks thathis son-in-law (or perhaps his brother- 
in-law, sihr) be warned that if he brings flax, he should bring it via Ascalon 
and not viajaffa, for in Jaffa the authorities ( ha-shalish ) confiscate the goods 
arriving at the port for the benefit of the army (the commander of the 
camps). 62 

[605] The defeat suffered by Atsiz hastened his downfall. The great 
battle in Egypt took place on 22 Rajab AH 469 (19 February AD 1077), 
after which Atsiz withdrew to Ramla, and then to Damascus. According 
to Sibt ibn al-Jawzi, Atsiz was forced to flee owing to the uprising of the 
local Muslim population, which began in Gaza and spread to Ramla and 
Jerusalem. The families of Atsiz and the other Turcoman leaders remained 
injerusalem. The cadi and the notaries (literally: ‘the witnesses’, al-shuhud) 
together with the rest of Jerusalem’s inhabitants, then seized the Turco¬ 
mans’ women and property, dividing them among themselves, and took 
the Turcoman children as slaves. Then Atsiz advanced on Jerusalem from 
Damascus, placed the city under siege, and promised its inhabitants the 
aman; on this basis, the inhabitants opened the gates of the city to him. 
Atsiz prevailed over Jerusalem, completely ignoring his promise of aman, 
and went on a rampage. He slaughtered 3,000 people there, among them 
the cadi and the notaries. He also conducted campaigns of annihilation 
against Ramla, until all its people had fled, and against Gaza, where he 
murdered the entire population. He likewise massacred people in al-‘ Arish 
and elsewhere and wrought endless havoc in Damascus, where only 3,000 
of the original 500,000 inhabitants had remained, due to starvation and 
scarcity. Jaffa, too, was attacked, and its governor, Razin al-Dawla Intisar, 
fled from the town to Tyre, together with all the city’s inhabitants, while 
the walls ofjaffa were destroyed on Atsiz’ orders. 63 

[606] Badr al-Jamalt made strenuous efforts to put an end to Atsiz’ 
control of Palestine and Damascus, and conducted two extensive but 

62 See 428, lines 2-3. ‘Eli ha-Kohen‘s letter: 455, a, lines 13ff, 26ff. 

63 Sibt ibn al-Jawzi (ed. Suwaym), 179f (on hunger in Damascus), 182-185, and in the 

editor’s note in Ibn al-QalanisI, 111. The battle in Egypt: Ibn Muyassar, 25; see Sibt ibn 

al-Jawzi (ed. Suwaym), 181: a letter written by Atsiz at the beginning of his campaign 

through the Jifar (northern Sinai) to Egypt, dated 29 Safar AH 469, 2 October AD 1076. 

On the rebellion injerusalem: Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, X, 103. 


412 



THE INVASION OF THE TURCOMANS [SECS. 603-607] 


unsuccessful campaigns against him. In order to fortify his position 
against Fatimid pressure Atsiz solicited the help of Taj al-Dawla Tutush, 
the son of the Saljuq ruler, Alp Arslan. Tutush, then a youth of fourteen, 
reached Damascus with the blessing of his brother Malik-Shah, who 
headed the Saljuq hierarchy. His first act was to have Atsiz executed, and 
from then onward, Tutush remained the only ruler in the city. This 
occurred in AH 471, that is AD 1078/9. It is difficult to know to what 
extent Tutush’ authority over Palestine was genuine, as during most of his 
rule, until he fell in battle, on 15 Safar AH 488 (26 February AD 1095), he 
was engaged in waging war in northern Syria. Injerusalem the actual ruler 
was Artuq, one of the Saljuq commanders subordinate to Tutush, and the 
latter turned Palestine over to him in AH 479, that is 1086. He set up his 
headquarters on the Temple Mount. Artuq died in 1091, after ruling the 
city for five years (or eight, according to Sibt; ibn al-Jawzi). His two sons 
succeeded him as rulers of the city, first llghazi and afterwards his brother 
Sukman. The two brothers were also involved in the struggle for the 
control of Damascus and Aleppo following the death of Tutush, when 
Tutush’s eldest son Dukak seized the reins of power, and Artuq’s sons 
supported Ridwan, one of Tutush’s other sons. The sons of Artuq were 
unsuccessful in their efforts to gain power and llghazi was taken captive 
and imprisoned for some time. Afterwards llghazi and Sukman returned 
and ruled over Jerusalem. 64 

[607] Badr al-Jamali, the wazir of al-Mustansir, took ill in Rabi‘ I AH 
487 (March AD 1094). He was a man of Armenian extraction, and at the 
time of his appointment as wazir in 1073, he was serving as the Fatimid 
governor of Acre. Prior to that he had been governor of Damascus and had 

64 ‘Azimi, 362; Ibn Taghri Bardi, V, 155; Ibn ‘Asakir, II, 321; IbnKathlr, Bidaya, xii, 113; cf. 
the article Tutush (by M. Th. Houtsma) in EP; Cahen, Byzantion, 18(1948), 37f; Bar 
Hebraeus (Bedjan), 259, (Budge), 230f (on Artuq). An event recorded only in ‘Azimi, 365, 
is the battle over Ascalon which began in Dhu’l-Hijja477, April 1085; it seems that a Saljuq 
attempt to take the city from the Fatimids is being referred to. On Artuq and his sons see: 
Ibn ‘Adlm, Bughiya, 139; see the articles: Ridwan (by K. V. Zetterstein) in EP, Artukids 
(by C. Cahen) in EP. The sources of this period speak of mihrab da’ud. Johns, QDAP, 
14(1905), 162, tried to prove that the citadel west of the city is meant, usually called 
David’s tower; but milfrab has manifold meanings: the qibla in the mosque, the mosque 
itself, Jews’ prayer places (meaning mainly the Temple), a palace. Busse, JSAl, 5(1984), 
79f summed up the meanings of mihrab da’ud as: the rock (the sakhra) in its entirety; the 
tower of David; the Church of St Mary on Mt Zion, according to the Christian tradition 
that identifies Mt Zion with David’s city, the ancient city of thejebusites. I believe one can 
add: the Dome of the Rock. See mihrab in Lisdn al-'arab and Taj al-'arus. But it seems to me 
that for the early mediaeval Arab sources mihrab da’iid was the Temple Mount; see IdrisI, 
IV, 358 (on Jerusalem): at its western end there is the gate of the mihrab, and this is the gate 
above which there is the Dome of Da’ud’. According to Sibt ibn al-Jawzi, Mir’dh (ed. 
Suwaym), 213, the appointee of Atsiz, Turmush, still ruled Jerusalem in the year AH 475, 
that is, AD 1082/3. Only in that year did Artuq, arriving on behalf of Tutush, receive 
Jerusalem from the aforementioned, peacefully. 


413 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


fought with considerable distinction against the Turcomans. After over¬ 
coming the anarchy that had spread throughout Egypt, by annihilating the 
commanders of the Turkish battalions in the caliph’s service, he was 
appointed supreme commander of the army, that is amir al-juyush. After 
the state of dreadful economic hardship and the unrestrained havoc 
wrought by the Turkish battalions, he managed to establish order and 
improve the economic conditions. Despite all his efforts, however, he 
could not restore the control of Palestine to the Fatimids, apart from its 
ports, where Fatimid rule continued in effect. Now that he succumbed to 
the illness from which he was to die a short while later, his son Abu’l- 
Qasim Shahinshah, who is al-Afdal, took over his role. Some years later, 
on Friday, 25 Ramadan AH 491 (26 August AD 1098), al-Afdal succeeded 
in taking Jerusalem. Ibn al-Athlr notes that Jerusalem was again under 
Fatimid control after a siege lasting more than forty days. At last, the 
Fatimids employed a war machine ( manjantq ) and managed to destroy part 
of the wall. The Saljuqs then asked for an amdn and abandoned the city. 

Typical of the times were the fears expressed in the letter I have already 
mentioned, written from Caesarea by Joshua he-hdver b. ‘Eli, to the Nagid 
Mevorakh b. Saadia in Fustat. He describes the state of terror in which the 
people live and expresses his wish to move from Caesarea to Ascalon, 
which was ‘more strongly fortified than Hasor’ (Caesarea), and for this 
reason, he needs a letter from Mevorakh to the cadi of Caesarea; this 
indicates that Caesarea was then under Fatimid control. 65 


The situation in Palestine during Turcoman rule 

[608] We have very little knowledge of what happened in Palestine 

during the period of Turcoman rule. According to Albert of Aachen, the 

65 On Badr al-Jamall see Lane-Poole, History, 150-157. On the appointment of al-Afdal and 
the conquest ofjerusalem: Ibn Khallikan, II, 450f; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, X, 282f; according 
to him it occurred in Sha‘ban 489, i.e. August 1096, but this is not credible, although Ibn 
Khallikan, too, 1,179, cites this as ‘some say’; see also: Ibn Muyassar, 28; Maqrtzl, Itti'aaz, 
III, 22; Ibn Taghri Bardt, V, 159, also has the same date as Ibn al-Athlr (1096) and notes 
that the two brothers, Artuq’s sons, were released - Sukman went to Ruha (which is 
Edessa, Urfa) and Ilghazi to Baghdad; ‘Aziml, 373 (who is the closest in time) also 
confirms the year AH 491, but he has the month as: Shawwal, that is September 1098; the 
anonymous Syriac chronicle. CSCO, vol. 154, p. 39, also records the two dates, 1096 and 
1098. The latter date is supported by the account of Albert of Aachen, who describes the 
taking ofjerusalem from Sukman the Saljuqid (Socomanus), and says that the Fatimids (he 
calls them: ‘the king of Babylon’) placed a siege onjerusalem at the time the Christians put 
Antioch under siege; see Albert of Aachen, 484ff(ch. 32, cf. MPL 166, 5521); we know that 
the siege of Antioch began on 21 October 1097 and lasted until 2 June 1098. Also a 
Maghribi merchant, who waited in Egypt for an oppportunity to go on a pilgrimage to 
Jerusalem, mentions in a letter that he did not manage, because the Sultan (al-Afdal) 
controlled Jerusalem for only a short while before it was conquered by the Crusaders. See: 
575, lines 24-25. The letter from Caesarea: 596. 


414 



PALESTINE UNDER THE TURCOMANS [SECS. 608-609] 


Turcomans imposed very heavy taxes on the entire population, including 
the Muslims, and on the pilgrims as well. As if to emphasise the superior¬ 
ity of the Fatimids, Albert argues that when they reconquered Jerusalem, 
they displayed respect for the Church and did not try to deflect the 
Christians from their religion. There is much bewailing over the dire 
straits in which the people found themselves, especially with regard to the 
severe drought in the area, evidently in 1075. At that time, a ghirara (some 
200 kilograms) of wheat cost more than 20 dinars in Damascus, according 
to Ibn ‘Asakir. The general impression that emerges from the sources I 
have quoted until now is that Atsiz’ Turcomans were at first welcomed 
approvingly and that this was an expression of the reservations the 
Muslim population had about the Fatimids. But this attitude gradually 
gave way to animosity towards the Turcomans and a yearning for the 
former rulers, and this feeling was evident in the rebellions of the year 
1078, which are described as though they constituted a kind of popular 
uprising. 

We also know little about the Turcomans’ attitude to the Christians. 
According to Sawirus ibn Muqaffa', a Jacobite Christian called Mansur 
al-Blb”l (?) was appointed governor of Jerusalem, and he saw to the 
restoration of the Jacobite church and was very helpful to the pilgrims. 
The Turcomans, however, abolished the rite of the Paschal fire in the 
Church of the Resurrection. 

The endless wars waged by the Turcomans led to endless destruction, 
and created an atmosphere of the End of Days. Indeed there were rumours 
that the end of the world would come in AH 485 (AD 1092/3). A 
commentary on the Book of Daniel written at that time dealt with al- 
tnamdlik wa’l-mi.lahim (the kingdoms and the wars) expected in the year 
1386 Sel. (AD 1074/5). The book has not been preserved, but it is clear 
from its title that it described in prophetic parlance the Turcomans’ 
invasions of the coastal cities of Palestine and Damascus, and it seems that 
it also contained a prophecy concerning the imminent End of Days. A 
Russian source of the time notes that the Turcomans destroyed and 
desolated the cities and the villages from Antioch to Jerusalem. They 
murdered, took captive, pillaged, set on fire; they destroyed churches and 
monasteries. In contrast, Cahen tried to paint a picture of a positive 
attitude towards the Christians, or at any rate, towards the Latins and the 
Jacobites, distinguishing them from ‘the Greeks’ (adherents of Byzan¬ 
tium). He ignores the account of Albert quoted above. One of the results 
of the Turcoman conquest, according to him, was the removal of Byzan¬ 
tine patronage over the Christians in Palestine, and the increasing strength 
of the Latins. He points out that in 1078, during the suppression of the 
rebellion in Jerusalem, Atsiz did not harm the Christians, and even the 


415 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


Greek Patriarch, Simeon, was permitted to remain in the city. On the 
other hand, al-‘AzTml notes that the people of the coastal towns (that is, the 
ports) prevented pilgrims, both Latins and Byzantines, from coming 
ashore in AH 485 (AD 1093), and whoever reached his own country safely 
spread information to this effect; and that it was this which provoked the 
Christian world to organise a Crusade. As far as we know, the ports were 
then in the hands of the Fatimids. 66 

[609] According to some of the sources in the Geniza, as we have already 
seen, the Turcoman occupation denoted terrible calamities, such as the 
taking captive of the people of Ramla, the cutting off of roads, the 
obduracy of the commanders, the aura of anxiety and panic, and so on. 
The poem of Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph speaks of destruction and ruin, 
the burning of harvests, the razing of plantations, the desecration of 
cemeteries, many acts of violence and slaughter (‘they cut off the ears and 
even the noses are finished off), and of course, plunder. We do not know 
what Atsiz’ attitude was to thejewish population in 1078, during the cruel 
suppression of the uprisings and the destruction of towns, but the fact that 
from this date onwards, we barely find letters from Palestine (apart from 
Ascalon and Caesarea) in the Geniza documents, speaks for itself. Before 
that, the communities still existed and were active, as were their courts; 
from this time onwards, there was a serious deterioration in their situ¬ 
ation. Below we shall see that some of the outstanding Muslim person¬ 
alities who were active in Jerusalem, such as Abu’l-Fath Nasr b. Ibrahim, 
one of the heads of the Shaffites during that period, were also forced to 
abandon Jerusalem at that time, and one can assume that they escaped 
from the city by the skin of their teeth. Apparently it was during that 
period, i.e. after 1078, that the Jerusalem yeshiva moved to Tyre. A 
fragment of a letter has been preserved in the handwriting of the Gaon 
Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon, evidently written in Tyre, in which Jerusa¬ 
lem is mentioned, as well as the distress of the community in Ascalon. A 
fragment of the deed written in Ramla on 10 August 1076 proves that the 
community still existed and the signatures are those of people well known 
to us: Abraham b. Nathan, head of the court, and Joshua he-haverb. ‘Eli, 
the grandson of the poet Samuel ‘the third’ b. Hosha‘na, who was one of 

66 Albert of Aachen, see the foregoing footnote: Ibn ‘Asakir, II, 331 (ghirara: see Hinz, 37f); 
Ibn al-Jawzi, Muntazam , V, 297: the kara (some 100 kilograms; see Hinz, 41) reached more 
than eighty dinars in Damascus (speaking of the end of AM 468, aroundjuly AD 1075); see 
on this also: Ibn Taghri BardI, V, 101; Ibn al-Qalanist, 108, who tells of instances of the 
eating of corpses and even of cannibalism. Also Ibn al-Qalanisi and al-‘Az!mJ, 361, 
mention that it was only Atsiz who brought about an improvement in conditions and was 
accepted by the people; see also Sawlrus, 11(3), 229, who also mentions rumours about the 
End of Days. The commentary on Daniel: TS Loan 149, ed. by Mann, Texts, I, 644fT. See 
fol. 2a (ibid., 645), lines Iff, and see Mann’s remarks, ibid., 663f, and n. 14. See on the 
Jacobites in Jerusalem during this period also: Cerulli, Etiopi, 11; Cahen, Bull, de lafac. des 


416 



PALESTINE UNDER THE TURCOMANS [SECS. 608-609] 


the personalities of the Palestinian yeshiva. Mention should also be made 
of the divorce deed from Jaffa, dated 12 April 1077, which I have already 
mentioned. In 1085 a certain Joseph b. Manasseh of Ascalon writes to 
Abraham b. Issac ha-Talmid in Fustat, telling him that he dared to travel 
from Ascalon to Jerusalem, where he went to his (abandoned) house to 
look for items he had buried there before fleeing. He did not find anything, 
only quires and books spoiled by the dampness of the walls. Thus we have 
evidence that at least some of the Jews of Jerusalem fled from the Turco¬ 
mans, during the rule of Atsiz, or that of Artuq. The subject of retrieving 
books also figures in a letter from Tripoli (Syria) and this is but further 
evidence of the difficulties of the times. This is a letter from a refugee from 
Jerusalem to her brother-in-law in Fustat, written ca. 1075. The writer was 
evidently a member of one of city’s notable families, as the wife of 
Abu’l-Khayr b. Mevorakh ha-Kohen, and who had two brothers, Shema- 
ria ha-Kohen, who is Abu’l-Wafa’ Haffaz of Ascalon, and Abu’l-A‘la, the 
merchants’ representative in Tyre. She was also a relative of the Egyptian 
Nagid Judah b. Saadia and his brother Mevorakh (perhaps his wife’s 
sister). She and her children are in great distress in Tripoli. Her husband 
Abu’l-Khayr has disappeared and one of her children, Muntasir, has died. 
Her brothers-in-law and sisters show no interest in her fate, and have 
forgotten how she treated them when she still lived in Jerusalem, Her 
brother-in-law Abu’l-Wafa’ was taken captive by the Arabs (who were 
generally allies of the Saljuqs). At that time, there was still a Jewish 
community in Hebron, as we see from a letter from Saadia ‘the haver of 
the graves of the patriarchs’, and particularly from the letter he wrote to 
Abiathar ha-Kohen. These letters were written at the beginning of 1082, 
and they contain the interesting information that the writers continued to 
maintain connections with Ascalon, which was evidently under Fatimid 
control. 

Abu Bakr ibn al-‘Arabi, a Spanish writer and scholar (of Seville), who 
visited Jerusalem in 1093—1095, that is during the rule of Ilghazi and 
Sukman, the sons of Artuq, paints a rather idyllic picture of Jerusalem in 
the journal of his travels. He stayed mainly in the neighbourhood of the 
Temple Mount, and speaks of lively spiritual activities in the Shaffite 
madrasas near bdb al-asbat (the gate of the tribes, the Crusaders’ gate of 
Jehoshaphat, on the northern side of the eastern wall), and of the Hana- 
fites. He mentions discussions with Christians and Jews on religious 
subjects, and among the Jews, he particularly singles out the habr (scholar) 
al-Tustari (he is perhaps Sahl b. Fadl, the Karaite writer). Religious and 
learned figures come and go, even from far-off Khurasan. He stayed more 

iettres de Strasbourg, 29(1950), 119-122; idem, Past and Present, 6(1954), 12; al-‘AzTmT, 369. 

The Russian source: Leib, Rome, Kiev et Byzance, 66. 


417 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


than six months in Ascalon (evidently during the year 1096) and there too 
found a spiritual centre which aroused his admiration. From Ascalon he 
sailed to Acre and from there he continued on to Tiberias and Damascus, 
and on to Baghdad. 67 


Events in Tyre 

[610] We have seen how important Tyre was to the economy, being the 
major port of the entire region of Palestine and Syria. I have also described 
the role played by the cadi of Tyre, Ibn Abl ‘Aqll, in maritime trade and in 
connection with its principal factor, the Jewish Maghribi merchants. I 
shall now review the special political events connected with the city in the 
latter half of the eleventh century, events which for a time turned it into a 
sort of city-state. As we shall discover, these events also affected to a great 
extent the Jewish communities of Palestine. The Palestinian yeshiva 
moved to Tyre during Turcoman rule in Palestine, perhaps in 1078; from 
Tyre it conducted the struggle against David b. Daniel, who lived in 
Egypt and wanted to be exilarch and the sole leader of the Jews in the 
Diaspora. 

The political events, at the core of which was the endeavour to achieve 
Tyre’s independence, centre round the personality of the cadi Ibn Abl 
‘Aqll ‘Abdallah b. ‘All b. ‘Iyad, who is Abu Muhammad or ‘Ayn al- 
Dawla. Apparently, he is first mentioned by Nasir Khusraw, who visited 
Tyre in February 1047, and I have already quoted him on the subject. In 
AH 448, that is AD 1056, he participated in the delegation negotiating 
with the ruler of Aleppo, Mu‘izz al-Dawla Thimal b. Salih b. Mirdas, on 
behalf of Caliph al-Mustansir. In AH 455, that is AD 1063, Ibn Abl ‘Aqil 
rebelled against the Fatimids and set up a form of independent city-state. 
Badr al-Jamall, commander of the Fatimid army, tried to reconquer Tyre, 
but to no avail. His principal attack was made in the summer of AH 462 
(AD 1070). The cadi then approached the Turcomans in the area who had 
the amir Qurlu at their head, and asked for their help. Indeed, they came to 
his aid, concentrating an army of6,000 cavalry around Sidon, and placing 

67 See: Greenstone, AJSLL, 22 (1905/6), 159-163, a, lines 16ff, col. 2. Elijah ha-Kohen’s 
letter: 429 . The fragment of a deed from Ramla: 568 . The deed of divorce from Jaffa: supra, 
sec. 331 .Joseph b. Manasseh: 593, b. line 4.The letter from Tripoli: 605. Goetein, JQR, NS 
66(1975/6), 70ff, 80-83, interprets the letter somewhat differently, assuming that it is from 
the Crusaders’ period, but see: ha-Yishuv, 278—282, where he recognises that it is from the 
period of the Saljuqs. Saadia’s letters: 613 , 614 , and see n. 315 above. See Ibn al-‘ArabI, 
Rihla, 79-85; idem, Ahkdm, 1586, describes a battle in Jerusalem between two military 
factions, and the siege placed on the Temple Mount (mihrah Da’iid). All that time, 
according to him, life in Jerusalem went on as usual, as if nothing had happened. On Sahl 
b. Fadl al-Tustari see Gil, ha-Tustarim, 63f and further in the chapter on the Karaites. 
Frenkel, Cathedra, 21 (1981/2), 57, 71, tries to prove that it is not to Atsiz' Turcomans that 
the descriptions of destruction and vandalism refer. 

418 



EVENTS IN TYRE [SECS. 610-611] 


it under siege in order to take it from the Fatimid garrison stationed there. 
Badr was forced to lift the siege on Tyre in order to save his own men who 
were trapped in Sidon, and although he renewed the siege again after¬ 
wards and brought its inhabitants to a sorry state, with a rati of bread 
selling at half a dinar, he saw that it was hopeless, for his hold on the entire 
area was dwindling due to the unceasing flow ofTurcoman battalions, and 
he left Tyre to its fate. 68 

[611] Owing to the Turcomans’ help, Tyre remained under the cadi’s 
aegis until his death in AH 465 (AD 1073), and in the hands ofhis son NafTs 
and his brothers until AH 482, that is AD 1089, when the Fatimid army, 
under Munir (or Naslr) al-Dawla al-Juyushi, conquered it. Jubayl, Beirut, 
Sidon and Acre were then taken by the Turcomans. Munir remained in 
Tyre and kept the reins of authority in his own hands, hoping to throw off 
the bonds of Fatimid rule. He stood his ground at the head ofhis people 
until 14Jumada II AH 486, or 12July AD 1093, when agents of the central 
authority brought him to Egypt together with many ofhis supporters and 
had them executed. Despite the fact that the population of Tyre demon¬ 
strated their backing of the Fatimids, the city was pillaged and fined the 
sum of60,000 dinars, and a new governor, by the name of al-Katila, was 
appointed by the Fatimid caliph. However, he too rebelled against the 
Fatimids afterwards and managed to stand up to them until Ramadan AH 
490 (August/September AD 1097), when a Fatimid army succeeded in 
suppressing the rebellion with considerable bloodshed. Al-Katila was 
caught, brought to Egypt, and executed. The events of 1089-1093 are 
reflected in two letters from the Geniza: one from ‘Amram ha-Kohen b. 
Aaron, the son-in-law of the Gaon Abiathar ha-Kohen, from which it 
emerges that Damascus (under Saljuq rule) was cut off from Ascalon 

68 Negotiations with Aleppo: Ibn al-‘Adim, Zubda, I, 274. On the events of the year AH 462 
see: Ibn al-Qalanisi, 98; Ibn Shaddad (MS Leiden 3076), fol. 116a-b, and in print: 165f. See 
details on the cadi in Ibn Taghri BardI, V, 63; according to whom he died in AH 450, i.e. 
AD 1058, which is not correct because he is still mentioned in letters of the Maghribi 
Jewish merchants of the sixties as well; he died in ZIb (Akhzlv), ‘a village between Acre 
and Tyre’; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, IX, 651; Sib( ibn al-jawzl, in the editor’s quotation in Ibn 
al-Qalanisi, 96f; according to whom the cadi took control of the city only in AH 462 (AD 
1070), but he evidently mentions a situation which existed already for seven years, in order 
to emphasise the state of complete anarchy that prevailed then in Fatimid-controlled areas, 
when the population also rebelled in Damascus, Tripoli and Ramla, while only Acre and 
Sidon remained loyal to the Fatimids; ‘ Azimi, 359; Maqrlzt, Itti'az, II, 303 (with another of 
the cadi’s titles: al-nasil) (the adviser); Ibn Muyassar, 20 (where Safad is printed instead of 
Tyre; and instead of the name Qurlu, we find: Lw’). The siege placed by Badr al-Jamali on 
Tyre is reflected in the letter of‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, of 15 April 1071: ‘Tyre is closed’; 
‘the one in Tyre, who contrived, was left without any helper, and it is his (supporting) 
rock which threw him down’, see 455 , a, lines 17, 31—32 (there is a play of words here: Sur, 
which is Tyre, and also: a rock; and perhaps God is also meant, ‘his rock’); it seems to have 
been written when the cadi was in the worse possible state, while Badr’s army had closed 
off Tyre. 


419 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


(under Fatimid control), and that in order to reach Ascalon, one had to 
travel via Egypt. The Jewish community of Damascus was utterly occu¬ 
pied with ransoming captives, undoubtedly captives taken in Tyre at the 
time of its conquest from the cadi’s family. From the other letter, written 
by the Gaon Abiathar ha-Kohen to the people of Baghdad, it appears that 
due to the lack of security and the innumerable soldiers stationed through¬ 
out the region, the brother of a man who had died in Iraq was unable to 
leave Tyre in order to go there and perform the halisa for his brother’s 
widow. 

Comparative calm and political and military stability existed in Palestine 
under Fatimid rule for only some forty years. The invasion of the Turkish 
tribes put an end to this near-stability at one blow. Palestine was drawn 
into a whirlpool of anarchy and insecurity, of internal wars among the 
Turks themselves and between them (generally in collaboration with the 
Arab tribes) and the Fatimids. Here and there, in one or another area, a 
delicate state of balance was arrived at for a few years. By and large, 
however, the Turcoman period, which lasted less than thirty years, was 
one of slaughter and vandalism, of economic hardship and the uprooting 
of populations. Terrible suffering, eviction and wandering, was the par¬ 
ticular lot of the Jewish population, and chiefly its leadership, the Pal¬ 
estinian yeshiva. Nevertheless, most of the communities evidently 
remained in their places, and only were finally uprooted during the 
Crusaders’ conquest. 


Brief chronological summary 

The period I have surveyed until now lasted in all for more than four and a 
half centuries (or to be precise: 465 years; from AD 634 until AD 1099). It 
comprised the following stages: (1) one generation of the Muslim con¬ 
quest and establishment (precisely twenty-seven years, from 634 until 
661); (2) some one-hundred years of Umayyad-Damascene rule, from 661 
until 750; (3) some one-hundred years of Abbasid-Baghdadian rule, from 
750 until 878; (4) some one-hundred years of Turco-Egyptian rule j- 
Tulunids and Ikhshidids - lasting from 878 until 970, of which thirty years 
were again under Abbasid-Baghdadian rule, between 905 and 935; (5) 
some two generations of war with many participants, the dominant factor 
among them being the Fatimids, from 970 until 1030; (6) some forty years 
of Fatimid-Egypdan rule, from 1030 until 1071; and (7) one generation of 
Turkish rule over most of Palestine, from 1071 until 1099, and towards the 
end some ten months of renewed Fatimid rule. These facts do not call for 
much interpretation; together they simply form a picture of almost un- 


420 



BRIEF CHRONOLOGICAL SUMMARY [SEC. 611] 

ceasing insecurity, of endless rebellions and wars, of upheavals and 
instability. 69 


Muslim personalities during the last generations of the period 

[612—613] As far as spiritual activity is concerned, the most famous 
personality of the period was undoubtedly the geographer Abu ‘Abdallah 
Muhammad b. Abu Bakr al-Banna’, Shams al-Din al-Maqdisi (in research 
literature it is customary to call him al-MuqaddasI, and he is known also 
by the nickname al-Basharf), author of the book on regions of the Muslim 
world which serves as one of the major sources for present-day scholars on 
the political and social geography and history of this world in the early 
Middle Ages. We have little information on his life, apart from what he 
himself has told us in his book. He was the grandson of an architect- 
builder who was famous in his day, Abu Bakr al-Banna’ (mentioned 
earlier in connection with the building of the port of Acre). His mother’s 
family arrived in Jerusalem two generations earlier from Biyar, in the 
region of Qumis in Khurasan. Al-Muqaddasi was born in around 945 - we 
know that in 966 he went on a pilgrimage to Mecca at about the age of 
twenty and that he died in around the year 1000. His book was written in 
or about 985, that is, at the height of the wars waged by the Fatimids in 
Palestine and Syria. 70 His cousin, also ajerusalemite, was al-Mutahhar b. 
al-Mutahhar (or: al-Tahir) al-Maqdisi, who emigrated to Bust in Sijistan 
and there wrote his book On the Creation and on History in about 956, in 
which many facts about the beginnings of Islam have been preserved 
which are not found in any other source known today. 71 

[614-619] Of the personalities living in Jerusalem in around 1000, there 
is mention of al-Qasim b. Muzahim b. Ibrahim al-Jandamm, who was the 
imam of Jerusalem. 72 Abu’l-'Abbas ‘Ubaydallah b. Muhammad Naff b. 

69 ‘AzImT, 368f; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, X, 176 (according to whom the cadi died during the 
siege, but this is not confirmed in any other source); Ibn al-QalanisI, 124; Ibn Taghri 
BardI, V, 128 (he has Nasir instead of Munir; and lie is of the opinion that Tyre was taken 
from the Saljuqs, not from the cadi’s sons); Ibn Muyassar, 28 (he too has Nasir instead of 
Munir); Ibn Kathir.Bjifaya, XII, 145; MaqrizI, Itti'az , II, 326, 328; III, 20 (he has: Nasir 
al-DawIa instead of Munir al-DawIa). Sibt ibn al-jawzl (ed. Suwaym), 178, notes that 
there was a non-aggression pact (hudna) between the rulers of Tyre and the Turcomans 
(al-Ghuzz). The letter of ‘Amram ha-Kohen: 552 , line 18. Abiathar’s letter: 553 , c, lines 
15—16. Cf. on Tyre in general: Ashtor, CCM, 18:117, 1975, where there is also infor¬ 
mation on the economic life of Tyre and Tripoli in the period under discussion and a 
survey of events in Tripoli in the decade between 1070-1080; see also his book: Social anti 
Economic History, 226f. 

70 See the article al-MukaddasI (byj. H. Kramers) in EP. 

71 See: Sezgin, I, 337. 

72 WasitI, 41 (I have no explanation for the nickname Jandaninl). 


421 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


Mukarram al-Bustl made a pilgrimage to Mecca from Naysabur in Persia 
and on his return, stopped in Ramla and Jerusalem. He died in AH 384, 
that is AD 994. 73 ‘Abdallah b. al-Walld al-Ansari, an Egyptian by birth, 
settled in Jerusalem and died there in around the year AH 410, that is AD 
1010. 74 The preacher ( al-khatib ) in the al-Aqsa mosque, Abu Bakr Mu¬ 
hammad b. Ahmad b. Muhammad al-Wasiti, wrote a treatise in AH 410, 
that is AD 1019/20, in praise ofjerusalem, the first of its kind, entitled: 
Concerning the (religious) status ofjerusalem. 75 Abu’l-Fath Muhammad b. 
Ibrahim b. Muhammad b. Yazld al-Bazzaz (the textile merchant) al- 
TarsusI (that is, he stemmed from Tarsus in Syria), known also by the 
name Ibn al-Basri, settled in Jerusalem and died there in AH 409, that is, 
AD 1018/9. 76 Another contemporary, Ja‘far b. Muhammad al-Naysaburl, 
that is a man of Naysabur in Persia, also settled in Jerusalem. 77 

[620-625] In the mid-eleventh century, there lived in Jerusalem Abu’l- 
Ma‘all al-Musharrafb. al-Murajja b. Ibrahim al-MaqdisI, author ofa book 
in praise ofjerusalem. As we have seen, he was a contemporary of the 
Gaon Solomon b. Judah. His book is called ‘the fada’il (precedence) of 
Jerusalem and of the Rock; he also wrote a book on the fada’il of al-Sham, 
edited by his pupil Abu’l-Qasim MakkI al-Rumayll. Al-‘UlaymI com¬ 
plains in his book that he could not find any article about him in any 
biographical literature. 78 Salama b. Isma‘11 b. Jama‘a al-MaqdisI al-Darir 
(‘the blind Jerusalemite’) died in Jerusalem in AH 480, that is AD 1087. 
Al-‘UlaymI praises him for his keen intellect. 79 In the year AH 463, that is 
AD 1071, on the eve of the Turcoman conquest, we find among those 
engaged in teaching traditions in Jerusalem, Tahir b. Muhammad b. 
Salama al-Quda‘I al-Misrl, who was born in Egypt, as his name in¬ 
dicates. 80 In his travel journal, Abu Bakr ibn al-‘ArabI, the Andalusian 
writer who stayed in Jerusalem from 1093 until 1095, as we have seen, 


73 Ibn al-Jawzl, Muntazam, VII, 175. 

74 ‘Ulayml, 256. 

75 WasitI, 3; cf. Sivan, IOS, 1(1971), 263. A critical edition of his book called Fada’il bayt 
al-maqdis (Jerusalem 1979), was published by I. Hasson; see in his introduction details on 
al-Wasiti; see also Ashtor, Tarbiz, 30 (1960/61), 210. 

76 Ibn al-jawzl, Muntazam, VII, 292; al-Khatlb, Ta’rikh, I, 415 (according to whom he died in 
410); Ibn Taghrl BardI, IV, 243. Jazarl, II, 48; it is not clear whether he is speaking of the 
same personality, because he mentions that his kutrya was Abu Umayya. 

77 ‘Ulaymi, 256. 

78 See 117 , lines 21-22; 453 , lines 8, 18; his father Murajja is also mentioned- see 99 , line 6; 
‘Ulayml, 264; cf. Sivan, IOS, 1(1971), 264; I have used the treatise of al-Musharraf in this 
book, on the basis of the photocopy of the MS Tubingen in the National Library, 
Jerusalem. The dissertation of Dr Livne (Hebrew University 1985) contains the critical 
edition of this important work. 

77 ‘Ulayml, 263. 

80 Ibn ‘Asakir, VII, 49. 


422 



MUSLIM PERSONALITIES IN THE LAST GENERATIONS [SECS. 612-660] 


mentions ‘Ata’ al-Maqdisi. 81 He seems to have been the pupil of another 
Jerusalemite, Abu’l-Fath Nasr b. Ibrahim b. Nasr b. Ibrahim b. Da’ud, 
al-Maqdisi al-NabulusI (i.e., he came from Nabulus). Nasr evidently lived 
most of his life in Damascus, and it was there that Abu Bakr ibn al-‘Arabi 
met him, shortly before his death. It was said that he earned his living from 
land in Nabulus. He studied in Tyre, and from there moved to Jerusalem, 
then returning again to Tyre, where he taught for some ten years. He died 
in Damascus, on 9 Muharram AH 490, 26 December AD 1096. He was the 
author of many books on Muslim law and had many pupils, one of the 
outstanding among them being Idris b. Hamza, of Ramla. According to 
Mujlr al-DIn al-‘Ulaymi, Nasr lived in Jerusalem in a zawiya (a sort of 
hostel for scholars of religion near the bab al-rahma ), known as al- 
Nasiriyya and afterwards as al-Ghazaliyya, because al-Ghazall lived there. 
(Abu Bakr ibn al-‘Arabi speaks of the ShafI madrasa near bab al-asbav, 
perhaps he is referring to the same institution.) 82 

Another important personality in Jerusalem during this period was the 
shaykh al-islam Abu’l-Faraj ‘Abd al-Wahid b. Ahmad b. Muhammad 
al-ShlrazI (i.e. of Shiraz in Persia) al-Ansarl, who was one of the heads of 
the Hanball school. He was the teacher of many of the heads of the 
Hanballs of the following generation and wrote many books on fiqh 
(Muslim law). He died in Damascus on 28 Dhu’l-Hijja AH 486,19January 
AD 1094. 83 

[626-630] One of the outstanding figures among the Muslim intellec¬ 
tuals of his generation was Abu’l-Qasim ‘Abd al-Jabbar b. Ahmad b. 
Yusuf al-RazI (that is, a man of Ray y, today the Tehran neighbourhood) 
al-Zahid (the ascete). He lived in Baghdad for many years and from there 
moved to Jerusalem. He was killed in the slaughter carried out by the 

81 Ibn aPArabi, Rihla, 81. The editor does not shed any light here but‘Ata’ is mentioned also 
in ‘Ulaymi, 264: he is Abu’l-Fadl ‘Ata’, who was head of the Shaffites in Jerusalem, and a 
contemporary and pupil of another important figure among the Shaffites at the time, Nfasr 
b. Ibrahim al-Maqdisi (mentioned next). 

82 Ibn al-‘Arabi, Rihla , 84; Subki, Tabaqat, V, 35If; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, X, 484; Safadi, 
al-Waji, IV, 376f: he was a strong opponent of Muhammad b. Karram; evidently during 
this period there were still many disciples of this thinker in Jerusalem, as is confirmed also 
by Abu Bakr ibn aPArabi, Rihla, 81; Dhahabi, ‘ Ibar , III, 329: he was a pupil of Mu¬ 
hammad b. Ja'far al-Mimasi (from Mayumas, the port area of Gaza; see Avi-Yonah, 
Ge’ografya historit, 117; Muqaddasi, Aqalim , 174) in Gaza; Dhahabi, ‘Uluw, 187; Yaqut, 
Buldan, V, 600: he moved to Damascus in AH 471, AD 1078/9; Ibn aPImad, III, 395f; 
Yaffi, III, 152; Ishbili, II, 159; ‘Ulaymi, 264, cf. Ibn aPArabi, Rihla, 80. See further: 
Brockelmann, GAL, S I, 609; Goitein, Yerushalayim (1952/3), 102 (= Ha-yishuv, 24); idem, 
Mediterranean Society, II, 201, 562, n. 14, who expresses the credible assumption that his 
leaving Jerusalem was connected with the Turcomans’ conquest, and the same applies to 
the transfer of the Palestine yeshiva to Tyre; one can add that the transfer took place in 
1078/9 (see in this footnote above), that is after Atsiz’ cruel acts of oppression, which I have 
described above, and that he moved at first to Damascus, and only afterwards to Tyre. 

83 ‘Ulaymi, 263; it seems that he too moved to Damascus in 1078, after Atsiz took Jerusalem 


4 2 3 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


Crusaders during their conquest. 84 We also know the name of the Shaffite 
cadi injerusalem at that time; he was Yahya ibn al-Sa’igh (the jeweller). 85 
When the Turcomans took control of Jerusalem, they appointed as chief 
cadi of the city a man of the Hanafite school, whose loyalty to the Turks 
was not in doubt, and a Turk himself- Muhammad b. Hasan b. Musa b. 
‘Abdallah al-Balasha‘um, also known by the name al-Ashqali. Due to the 
complaints about him on the part of the other cadis injerusalem, he was 
dismissed and given a similar post in Damascus. He died in Jumada II AH 
506, December AD 1112. 86 

We find the important Spanish scholar Abu Bakr Muhammad b. al- 
Walid b. Mahmud (or Muhammad) al-Turtushl (of Tortosa) al-Qurashi 
al-Fihri, living injerusalem during the 90s of the eleventh century. He was 
a man of the Malikite school, who spent most of his years in Alexandria 
and was a retainer of the Fatimid wazir al-Afdal. He died in Alexandria in 
AH 520, that is 1126. Abu Bakr ibn al-‘Arabi met him injerusalem, and 
describes with admiration how he listened to his lectures. According to 
him, al-Turtushi lived in a ghuwayr, that is, a small cave, between Bab 
al-Asbat and Mihrab Zakariyya’. Some of his impressions ofjerusalem are 
recorded in al-Turtushi’s book on fake traditions. He is primarily known, 
however, for his work on political philosophy, siraj al-muluk (the candle 
[the light] for kings). 87 

Abu’l-Qasim Makki b. ‘Abd al-Salam al-Rumayll al-Maqdisi was a 
pupil of al-Musharraf ibn al-Murajja, the collector of the praises ofjerusa¬ 
lem. He was also killed by the Crusaders at the time of the conquest. 
According to a tradition quoted by Dhahabi in his Tadhkira, he was stoned 
while in captivity, near Beirut, on 12 Shawwal AH 492, 1 December AD 
1099. He also studied with Muhammad b. ‘All b. Yahya b. Silwan 
al-Mazini, with Abu ‘Uthman b. Waraqa and with ‘Abd al-‘Aziz b. 
Ahmad al-NasIblni. For some time, he studied in Ascalon with Ahmad b. 
al-Husayn al-Shamma‘ (the candle-maker or merchant). It was said that 
the Crusaders were willing to release Abu’l-Qasim for the sum of 1,000 
mithqals (dinars), but the money could not be raised. It was also said that he 
had with him a book in which he collected traditions on the history of 

a second time; Ibn AblYa'la, II, 248f; IbnRajab, I, 85-92; Ibn al-Qalanisi, 125; cf. Goitein, 
ha-Yishuv , 24. 

84 Subkl, Tabaqat, V, 98; cf. Goitein, ha-Yishuv , 23. 

85 Ibn al-'Arabl, Rihla, 80 (he met him injerusalem, in around 1095); Subkl, Tabaqat, IV, 
324. 

m ‘Ulayml, 265. 

87 Ibn al-‘ArabI, Rihla, 80. This cave was perhaps maghdrat Ibrahim, mentioned by Ibn 
al-Faqlh, 101, on the northern side of the Temple Mount; cf. below, sec. 842, n. 115. See 
Turtushl’s book al-hawadith wa’l-bida', 81, 116, 121f, 127, and the introduction on the life 
of the author, by the editor (Muhammad al-Talibl), 3f; see also Ibn Khallikan, III, 394; 
‘Ulaymi, 266f; Dhahabi, Tadhkira, 1271; cf. Brockelmann, GAL, I, 459; Levi-Proven^al, 

424 



MUSLIM PERSONALITIES IN THE LAST GENERATIONS (SECS. 612-660] 

Jerusalem, ta’rikh bayt al-maqdis, and a book on the praises of Hebron, but 
these works have been lost. He had quite a reputation as a scholar on 
Shafiite law, and people would come from far and wide to hear him pass 
judgment. 88 

[631-634] Another pupil of Abu’l-Fath Nasr b. Ibrahim was the Jerusa¬ 
lemite Shafi‘ite scholar Abu’l-Fath Sultan b. Ibrahim b. al-Muslim. He 
wrote a book entitled al-dhakha’ir (the treasures). He was born in Jerusalem 
in AH 442, that is AD 1050/1. At some unknown date, he moved to Egypt 
and was the leader of the Shafi’ites there. He died in AH 518, that is 
AD 1124. 89 

Among the personalities mentioned by Ibn al-‘Arabi in his journal, one 
should also note Abu’l-Ma‘all Mujalli b. Jami‘ b. Naja al-Makhzumi, who 
was one of the outstanding figures among the ShafVites in Jerusalem. He 
stemmed from Arsuf, and was a pupil of the above-mentioned Abu’l-Fath 
Sul(an. Towards the end of his life, in AH 547, that is AD 1152, he became 
the chief cadi of Egypt for a period of two years. He died in Dhu’l-Qa'da 
AH 550, January AD 1156. 90 

Among the famous people staying in Jerusalem at this time, one must 
mention Abu Hamid Muhammad b. Muhammad al-Tusi al-Ghazall. One 
of Islam’s greatest thinkers of all times, he stayed in Jerusalem after leaving 
his post in Baghdad and decided to devote himself to spiritual matters and 
writing. He seems to have arrived in Jerusalem not earlier than 1096, for 
Ibn al-‘Arabi, who lived in Jerusalem from 1093-1095, does not mention 
him. 91 

A native of Jerusalem who earned fame and recognition was the poet 
and collector of traditions, Abu’l-Fadl Muhammad b. Tahir b. ‘All b. 
Ahmad al-Maqdisi al-Shaybani, who was called Ibn al-Qaysarani (son of a 
man of Caesarea). He was born in Jerusalem on 6 Shawwal AH 448 (17 
December AD 1056). From AH 468, that is AD 1075, he studied in 
Baghdad and spent many years travelling in the East, looking for tra¬ 
ditions. He generally went on his travels by foot and lived an austere and 

History, III, 5, n. 1, see ibid. , 1 OOf, the translation of a fragment of siraj al-muluk\ a Spanish 
translation was edited by M. Alarcon (Madrid 1930/1). 

38 Ibn al-Tmad, III, 398f; Subki, Tabaqat, V, 332ff; idem, Shifa’, 1 lOf; Sam'atil(Haydarabad), 
VI, 173; Ibn al-Athir, Lubab, I, 477; Dhahabi, Tadhkira, 1229f; Yaqut, Buldan, II, 824; 
‘Ulayml, 264f; cf. Rosenthal, History of Muslim Historiography 2 , 464, 468; Sivan, /OS, 
1(1971), 263f. 

89 ‘Ulayml, 266; Dhahabi, Tadhkira, 1270. 

90 Ibn al-‘Arabt, Rihltt, 80; SuyutT, Muhadam, I, 405, where there is a list of his works, among 
them a book on judges’ procedures; Ibn Khallikan, IV, 154. 

91 See the article al-Ghazall (by W. M. Watt) in EP, and references therein to many studies 
written on his life and his works. See the survey of his biography and his achievements: 
Lazarus-Yafeh, al-Ghazali, in the introduction: pp. 11-17. It is possible that his stay in 
Jerusalem took place before Ibn al-’Arabl arrived there in 1092, as emerges from Ibn 
‘Asakir’s account (see above, sec. 201, n. 115). 


425 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


ascetic life, being an adherent of extremist Sufism. He wrote many books, 
of which four were printed - one of them dealing with identical names of 
genealogical descent. He died after a visit to Jerusalem, en route to Baghdad 
on his return from a pilgrimage, in Rabi‘ I AH 507, August AD 1113. 92 

[635-642] We also know of a number of personalities who lived in 
Ramla at this time. Most prominent was Abu Muhammad Khalaf b. 
Muhammad b. ‘All b. Hamdun al-Wasitl, from Wasit in Iraq. It was said 
that he settled in the region of Ramla and engaged in commerce, and 
eventually left his studies (‘ilm) behind. In his youth, he studied in Bagh¬ 
dad, Damascus, and in Jurjan and Khurasan. He wrote a book on the 
traditions in Bukhari and Muslim. He died in AH 401, that is AD 1010/1. 93 

There seems to have been a centre of Shiite personalities in Ramla 
during this period. The Shiite writer al-Tusi mentions some of them in his 
book AmalT (telling of a dream in which ‘All ibn Abi Talib appears), 
among them Muhammad b. Ibrahim b. QarwazI and Abu ‘All Masbah b. 
Hilqam al-‘Ijli. Two Shiites who were active in Eilat are also mentioned in 
the book: ‘All b. Ayman, and Abu Ya‘la Muhammad b. Zuhayr, who was 
the Shiite cadi in Eilat. 94 

We know the name of the chief cadi in Ramla in 1024, he was Abu’l- 
‘Assaf al-Kabbashl. Evidently he was also the superior of the cadi of 
Jerusalem. 95 Owing to the preservation of a part of Musabbihl’s book, we 
also know the name of the man in charge of collecting taxes ( kharaj ) in 
Ramla (apparently referring to jund Filastin) at that time - Abu Talib 
al-Gharabill, who was appointed to the position on 1 Rabi‘ II AH 415 
(12June AD 1024), replacing‘Ubaydallah b. Yunus. 96 In Ramla there lived 
one of the offspring of many generations of descendants of ‘Umar ibn 
al-Khattab; he was Abu’l-Qasam ‘Isa b. ‘All al-‘Umari. Al-Karajill notes 
thathe met him injumada II AH 412, September AD 1021. 97 Another man 
of Ramla was Ahmad b. Muhammad al-Kattanl (the flax merchant), who 
settled in Damascus where he taught traditions. He died in Damascus 


92 See the article Ibn al-Kaysarani (byj. Schacht, No. 1) in EP and the references there; to 
which must be added: Ibn al-jawzl, Muntazam, IX, 177f; ‘Ulayml, 265f (who has an error 
in the year of his death); cf. Goitein, ha-Yishuv, 24. 

93 Al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, Ta'rikh, VIII, 334f, Ibn ‘Asakir, V, 170f; Ibn al-jawzl, Muntazam, 
VII, 254; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil, IX, 226; DhahabI, Tadhkira, 1067f; cf. Brockelmann, GAL, 
S I, 281; Sezgin, I, 220. 

94 Al-Tusi, Amdli, II, 232; he wrote it in AH 457, that is AD 1065, see p. 225 ibid. 

93 Musabbihl, 17, 30 (in the second place he is called Ibn al-‘Assaf). He calls him sharif, that is 
he was related to the ‘Alids. 

96 Musabbihl, 34. One cannot know if in fact the appointment was fulfilled, for it seems that 
Ramla was under the control of the Banu Jarrah at the time. 

97 Al-Karajili. 247. 


426 



MUSLIM PERSONALITIES IN THE LAST GENERATIONS [SECS. 612-660] 

in AH 464, that is AD 1071/2. 98 Abu’l-Munajjim Muhammad b. MakkI b. 
Muhammad b. Ibrahim al-Dari (related to Tamim al-Dari ofHebron) was 
a poet in Ramla. He was born in AH 417, that is AD 1026. 99 The leader of 
the Shafi’ites in Ramla, Abu’l-Hasan Idris b. Hamza b. ‘All, was a pupil of 
the above-mentioned Abu’l-Fath Nasr b. Ibrahim. After the Turkish 
conquest, he seems to have moved to Baghdad, and from there to Khura¬ 
san and then to Samarqand, where he died in AH 504, that is, AD 
1110/1. ioo 

[643-645] For a certain time, Muhammad b. Muhammad b. Ahmad 
al-Naysaburl, that is, of Naysabur in Persia, lived in Tiberias. He wrote 
many books, but their names have not been preserved, apart from a book 
about names and nicknames, parts of which are preserved in manuscript. 
He died in Rabl‘ I AH 378 (July AD 988). 101 Another Tiberian was Abu 
Ahmad ‘Abdallah b. Bakr b. Muhammad, who was an ascete (zahid). He 
lived in Akwakh near Baniyas. In his youth, he studied in Syria, Mecca 
and Baghdad. He died on 13 Rabf I AH 399 (15 November AD 1008). 102 

Abu Muhammad Hiyaj b. ‘Ubayd b. al-Husayn, also an ascete, lived in 
Hitfln. He moved to Mecca and died there during a struggle between the 
Sunnis and the Shiites in AH 472, that is, AD 1080. He died of the blows 
inflicted by the ruler of Mecca (undoubtedly on behalf of the Fatimids), 
Muhammad b. Abl Hashim. 103 

[646-650] In Ascalon at this time there was an important Muslim 
spiritual centre. It was said that Abu’l-Hasan ‘All b. Fadlan al-Jurjanl, of 
Samarqand, settled for a while in Ascalon and studied with Da’ud b. 
Ahmad. 104 At about the same time, we find Abu’l-Husayn Muhammad b. 
Ahmad b. ‘Abd al-Rahman al-Malatl, one of the Shaffite leaders and a 
man of considerable knowledge of law, staying in Ascalon. He wrote 
many treatises in this field, as well as on theology and the teachings of the 
Koran. He died in AH 377, that is AD 987/8. 105 Of the following gener¬ 
ation in Ascalon, Abu Muhammad Isma‘11 b. Raja’ b. Sa‘Id is mentioned, 
and it was said that he settled for a time in Sidon but returned to Palestine 

98 Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 449. 

99 Safadi, al-Wafi, V, 57; his kunya apparently indicates that he had a son who was an 
astrologer. 

11)0 Ibnjawzi, Muntazam IX, 166f; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, X, 484. 

101 Safadi, al-Wafi, I, 115; Ibn al-jawzl, Muntazam, VII, 146; Dhahabi, Tadhkira, 976-979; cf. 
Sezgin, I, 203f; and more references there. 

102 Ibn ‘Asakir, VII, 311; Yaqut, Buldan, I, 344; al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, Ta'rikh, IX, 423; Ibn 
Jawzi, Muntazam, VII, 244f; Akwakh, see Le Strange, Palestine, 391. 

103 Ibn al-Tmad, III, 342; Ibn Taghri Bardi, V, 109; Ibn al-Jawzi, Muntazam, V, 326. The 
sources note, in mentioning Hiyaj and Hittln, that the grave of Shu‘ayb, father of 
Sippora, Moses’ wife, is found there. 

m Al-Sahmi, 278. 

105 Jazari, II, 67; Subki, Tabaqat, III, 77f; cf. Brockelmann, GAL, S I, 348; Sezgin, I, 607, who 
has more references, and details on his book against schismatics preserved in manuscript. 


427 



THE WAR OF SIXTY YEARS 


and died in Ramla in AH 423, that is AD 1032. 106 Abu ‘All al-Hasan b. 
‘Abd al-Samad b. Abl’l-Shihna of Ascalon was one of the high Fatimid 
officials (he worked in the diwan al-insha’, the state secretariat, where 
official letters were written) and became famous for his letters ( rasa’il ) and 
his poetry. He was killed in AH 486, that is AD 1093. 107 Abu’l-Qasim 
Thabit b. Ahmad was a Baghdadian who settled in Ascalon and engaged in 
the collecting of traditions. Ibn ‘Asakir confirms that he saw his book 
written, in his own handwriting, and its ijdza (permission to distribute it) 
at the beginning of Rabl‘ I AH 477, July AD 1084. 108 

[651-653] Gaza was evidently the centre of the Malikite school during 
the period being described. There, Abu Bakr Muhammad b. al-‘Abbas b. 
Waslf was engaged in teaching Malik’s Muwatta, as he had learned it from 
another Gazan, al-Hasan b. al-Faraj, who was also the teacher ofYahya b. 
Bukayr. Abu Bakr Muhammad died in AH 372, that is AD 982/3. 109 
Another personality in Gaza many years later was Abu Ishaq Ibrahim b. 
Yahya b. ‘Uthman, who was both a poet and a Shafi‘1 scholar. He was also 
a pupil of Nasr b. Ibrahim, in Damascus, beginning in the year AH 481, 
that is, AD 1088, when he was forty. It seems that he did not return to 
Gaza afterwards but moved to Baghdad, where he taught in the madrasa 
al-nizamiyya for many years. Towards the end of his life he lived in 
Khurasan, and he died there in 1130. 110 

A well-known poet in his day, Abu ‘Abdallah Muhammad b. Nasr b. 
Saghlr b. Khalid al-Makhzuml, who was called Muhadhdhib al-DIn, or 
‘Uddat al-DIn, or Sharaf al-DIn, and also known by the name Ibn al- 
Qaysaranl, was born in Acre in AH 478, that is AD 1085/6, and grew up in 
Caesarea. He later moved to Damascus and from there to Aleppo, where 
he was in charge of the local library (khizanat al-kutub). He died in AH 548, 
that is AD 1153/4. He was the most important Syrian poet of his day. 111 

[654—660] During this time, we encounter a number of Muslim spiritual 
leaders in Tyre. Among them we find Ahmad b. ‘Ata’ b. Ahmad b. 
Muhammad b. ‘Ata’ al-Rudhbadl, one of the Sufi leaders. According to 
Ibn al-Athlr, he came from Baghdad and at first lived in the neigh¬ 
bourhood of Acre. He died in Tyre in Dhu’l-Hijja AH 369 (July AD 
980). 112 Three generations later, we find another Baghdadian who settled 

106 Ibn ‘Asakir, III, 19. 

107 Ibn Muyassar, 29. 

108 Ibn ‘Asakir, III, 362. 

109 Ibn al-Tmad, III, 79. 

110 Ibn Khallikan, I, 57-62; Brockelmann, GAL , G I, 253. 

111 SafadI, al-Wajt, V, 112; Ibn Khallikan, IV, 458; Dhahabi, Tadhkira, 1313; cf. Brockel¬ 
mann, GAL , S I, 455; see the article Ibn al-Kaysaranl (by J. Schacht, No. 2) in EP. 

112 Ibn al-Athir, KSmil, VIII, 710; Dhahabi, ‘Ibar, II, 350; Ibn al-jawzl, Mimtazam, VII, 101; 
SafadI, al-Wafi, VII, 184. Cf. Sezgin, I, 663, and further references and details there on 
some of his books that have been preserved in manuscript. 


428 



MUSLIM PERSONALITIES IN THE LAST GENERATIONS [SECS. 612-660] 

in Tyre; he was Abu’l-Faraj ‘Abd al-Wahhab b. Husayn b. Burhan al- 
Ghazzal (the spinner). He died in Tyre in Shawwal AH 447 (December 
AD 1055). Al-Khatlb al-Baghdadi, on returning from a pilgrimage to 
Mecca, met him in Tyre. 113 Muhammad b. ‘All al-Karajikl (from Karajik, 
near Wasit, in Iraq) was a Shiite leader and a grammarian, a linguist, an 
astrologer, a physician and a theological scholar ( mutakallim ), who wrote 
many books. He died in Tyre on Rabl‘ I AH 449 (May AD 1057). 114 In the 
latter half of the eleventh century, we find one of the central figures of the 
Sufi movement, Abu ‘Abdallah Muhammad b. Muhammad b. Mu¬ 
hammad al-Taliqani, a scholar and poet. He died in AH 466, that is AD 
1073/4. 115 

Abu Tahir Ibrahim b. Muhammad b.‘Abd al-Razzaq, who is described 
as ‘one of the men of the Haifa citadel (qasr)', lived and worked in Haifa. 
He studied in Tripoli; in the year AH 486, that is AD 1093, he was teaching 
in Tyre. 1,6 Among the collectors of traditions, one must also mention a 
man of Baniyas, Abu ‘ AITJamll b. Yusuf b. Isma‘11 al-Mardanl. He came to 
Damascus in AH 456, that is AD 1064, and studied hadlth there. He died in 
AH 484 (AD 1091). 117 Another man from Baniyas and contemporary, 
Samdun b. Husayn, of a family which stemmed from Tyre, also engaged 
in the study ofhadlth. He died in Baniyas in AH 491, that is AD 1098. 118 

1,3 Dhahabi, 'Ibar, III, 214; al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, Ta’nkh, XI, 34. 

114 Dhahabi, 'Ibar, 220; idem, Tadhkira, 1127; Safadi, al-Wifi, IV, 130. 

115 Safadi, at-Wdfi, I, 273. 

1,6 Ibn 'Asakir, II, 286; Sam'ani, IV, 332, see n. 2 of the editor; Yiiqut, Buldan, II, 381; 
Khalidi, 72. 

117 Ibn ‘Asakir, III, 406. 

« 8 Ibn ‘Asakir, VI, 446. 


429 



7 

The Christians 

V 


The Christian leadership after the conquest 

[661] When Christianity had triumphed and become the official religion of 
the Byzantine empire, it gradually lost something of its vitality and its 
potential for spiritual influence, becoming part of the imperial establish¬ 
ment. At the same time, especially at the outset of the fourth century, a 
process of schism and fragmentation was emerging and intensifying. In 
the East, the school of Antioch, in which a rich tradition of commentaries 
on the Holy Books had developed, predominated. Born out of these 
exegetical traditions was the excessive stress onjesus the man, but without 
a complete discrediting of his divinity. He was seen to possess two 
separate natures (physeis ), human and divine. When this concept spread 
among the masses, its format was narrowed to the claim that Jesus had 
only the human nature. On the other hand, in the West, the school of 
Alexandria emerged, with the claim that Jesus had but the divine nature, 
and that he was the embodiment of God the Father, and in essence, his 
equal. It was in this school that the term Theotokos, mother of God, 
originated (with the emphasis on being the mother of no ordinary mortal) 
as the definition of Mary. In 428, Nestorius, a monk from the region of 
Antioch, was appointed patriarch of Constantinople. He and his circle 
began to conduct energetic propaganda against the idea of‘the mother of 
God’ and in favour of the principles of the school of Antioch. At the 
council of the Church at Ephesus in 431, Cyril, the bishop of Alexandria, 
succeeded in uniting round him many of the bishops who objected to 
Nestorius’ views, while the latter and his followers (mainly Syrians) 
organised themselves into a separate council, and this marked the begin¬ 
ning of the schism and the mutual ostracism. The majority of Christians 
within the Persian state accepted the Nestorian views, and even after 
the Muslim conquest, the Nestorian creed remained the dominant one in 
the East. The head of the Nestorians, the Catholicos, established his seat in 


430 



CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP AFTER THE CONQUEST [SECS. 661-664] 


Baghdad after the Abbasid revolution, and the Abbasid caliphs saw in him 
the representative of all the Christians in the caliphate. Cyril, on the other 
hand, continued to be based in Alexandria, until his death in 444. There¬ 
after, a number of extremist trends emerged in Alexandria around the new 
doctrine, according to which the two natures of Jesus, the human and the 
divine, became solely one of divinity at the time of his incamatio. This 
view, which was called Monophysitism, provoked the opposition of both 
the patriarch of Constantinople and the pope in Rome, Leo I. In 450, the 
emperor Theodosius II died and his successor Mardan (who was his 
brother-in-law, his sister’s husband), convoked a Church Council in 
Chalcedon in 451, where he succeeded in prevailing over the Mono- 
physites, who were declared heretics. In Chalcedon, they formulated the 
creed of Jesus’ two natures, which are whole and cannot be divided, 
though separate. The Christian masses in Syria, Palestine and Egypt 
remained loyal to the Monophysite creed in the main, and left the official 
Byzantine Church. The new heresy became the focal point for all the 
economic, social and political dissatisfaction with the bureaucratic ways of 
the empire. In 482 the emperor Zeno (‘the Isaurian’, that is from the region 
of Seleucia, the south-eastern corner of Anatolia, who reigned from 
474—494) issued a decree known as the henotikon, the decree of unity. This 
was an attempt to resolve the problem and reunite the Church by avoiding 
any mention of such concepts as ‘one nature’ or ‘double nature’. It soon 
became obvious that a compromise was impossible and the schism became 
even deeper. At that time, Jerusalem was the centre of fanatical Mono¬ 
physitism and the followers of Severus, leader of the opposition to the 
henotikon, during the years 507-511, who was a Palestinian himself, domi¬ 
nated the scene. The Pope in Rome also vehemently opposed the henotikon 
and banned the emperor. The result was that relations between Rome and 
Constantinople were severed for thirty years. This was the beginning of 
the split between the ‘Latins’ and the ‘Greeks’. From then on, Christianity 
was divided into three factions: the Nestorians (who are today known as 
the ‘Assyrians’), the Monophysites and the Diophysites. The latter were 
the orthodox and at their head stood the emperor and the patriarch of 
Constantinople. In the East they had comparatively few followers, and 
they were known as ‘people of the king’s church’, the Melkites. At that 
time, there was a continuous rift within this mainstream between the 
centre in Constantinople and the pope in Rome, though they finally 
separated only in 1054. As to the Monophysites, in Syria and Palestine 
they organised themselves in a separate Church called thejacobites, after 
Ya'qub bar Ada, the first Monophysite bishop to be recognised by the 
emperor (Justinian, 542); while in Egypt, where most of the Christian 


43i 



THE CHRISTIANS 


population supported Monophysitism, the Monophysite Coptic Church 
was established, as opposed to the Melekite-Greek Church. 

During the Byzantine era, Jerusalem was a focal point for stormy 
quarrels over the various religious views. There was a centre of the 
followers of Origenes, who believed in the pre-existence of souls, in¬ 
cluding that of Jesus. Here, too, Epiphanius and Hieronymus fought 
against John, bishop of Jerusalem (389-415) over the fact that he did not 
denounce the followers of Origenes. At the very same time, another 
schismatic movement concentrated in Jerusalem, that of Pelagius of 
Rome, who held the extremist view based on the principle of freedom of 
will and personal responsibility. Furthermore, there were in Jerusalem the 
followers of Severus the Monophysite whom I have already mentioned. 
One should bear in mind that the bishop ofjerusalem always occupied a 
special status and position of influence within the Church, which was 
considerably strengthened during bishop Juvenal’s day (422-458). At first, 
Juvenal was one of the supporters of Cyril, the patriarch of Alexandria, 
and backed him at the Council of Ephesus, but at the Council of Chalce- 
don, he reneged and joined the emperor in his opposition to the Mono- 
physites. The immediate result of this stand was the further enhancement 
of his status in the hierarchy of the Church. From then on, he controlled 
the three chief bishops (metropolitans) of Palestine: of Caesarea, Bet Shean 
and Petra, and was given the rank of patriarch, on a par with the patriarch 
of Antioch. The patriarchate in Jerusalem can then be reckoned as starting 
from 451. 

Sophronius, the patriarch ofjerusalem at the time of the Muslim con¬ 
quest, was the representative of extreme orthodox religiosity, the keen 
opponent of a new formula of the henotikort, the doctrine of Mono- 
theletism, which emperor Heraclius hoped to instil. This creed quietly 
ignored the problematic subject ofjesus’ natures, and spoke of God’s unity 
of will and action (hence its name). Here again the intention was clearly to 
reunite the church. 1 

[662] It should be noted that at the time of the Muslim conquest, the 
Christians in Palestine were only one decade away from the terrible 
distress brought on by the Persian conquest, which caused enormous loss 
of life and property to the ecclesiastic system. Many captives from among 
the clergy and the monks were taken to Persia; only a small remnant 
returned after the final victory over the Persians, bringing with them the 
Holy Cross. Towards the end of their reign in Palestine, however, the 

1 See: Pargoire, L’eglise byzantine, 34, 222f; Couret, La Palestine, 9f, 152ff; Vasiliev, History, 
I, 107ff; Hotzelt, ZDPV, 66 (1943), 79; Mas'udI, Muruj, III, 407, notes that at first there was 
no patriarch injerusalem, only a bishop in charge ofChristian affairs in the district ofLydda 
and injerusalem. 


432 



CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP AFTER THE CONQUEST [SECS. 661-664] 


Persians modified their attitude to the Christians, and I have already 
mentioned the part played by Modestus, the patriarch’s locum tenens, in 
the restoration of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. As we have already 
seen, Sophronius did not last long after the conquest and his death was 
followed by days of anarchy and desolation in the Jerusalem patriarchate, 
and the patriarchal seat remained unoccupied for some sixty years. Never¬ 
theless the churches and monasteries of Jerusalem withstood the times, 
evidently mainly due to ‘Umar’s policy to avoid any offence to churches 
and monasteries in Jerusalem, a policy which was explicitly expressed in 
the agreement he contracted with the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 2 

[663] Sources on the connections between Byzantium andjerusalem at 
that time have not been preserved (and there may have been complete 
disruption due to the continual warfare between the Muslims and the 
Byzantines). As against this, sources on the connection between Rome 
andjerusalem have been preserved and Catholic scholars emphasise this 
fact, in which they see evidence of the priority of Rome over Constanti¬ 
nople. These sources are the letters of Pope Martin I (649-653) to John, 
bishop of‘Amman (Philadelphia), to Theodore, bishop of Heshbon (Es- 
bonitorum), to Antoninus, bishop of Baq'a [?] (Bacathorum), and to 
George, the archimandrite of the Monastery of St Theodosius. The latter 
three are asked to obey John, bishop of Philadelphia. According to a 
source mentioned by Dositheos (patriarch of Jerusalem, 1669-1707), it 
was Sergius who became patriarch after Sophronius, but he was not 
accepted by the monks and they sent Stephen, bishop of Dor, to Rome and 
the Pope dismissed Sergius. However, as Dositheos points out, this 
account is false, because the aforementioned Sergius was never patriarch at 
all, but was the bishop of Jaffa. Indeed, Pope Martin’s letter states that it 
was Stephen, bishop of Dor and his people, that is, the monks of the 
Monastery of St Theodosius, who recommended the appointment of 
John, bishop of ‘Amman, as his representative ( vicarius) in the East, 
granting him the authority to appoint bishops and other ecclesiastic offices 
in the regions within the jurisdiction of Jerusalem and Antioch. This 
appointment ofjohn as bishop of‘Amman was intended to counteract the 
appointments of‘the pseudo-bishop’, Macedonius, and of Petrus, who 
were appointed on behalf of‘the heretics of the Church of Alexandria’. In 
another letter, the Pope even castigates a certain Pantaleon who spread 
slander about that Stephen, bishop of Dor. It seems that basically what is 


2 See: Le Quien, Oriens Christianus, III, 131. Although there are Muslim traditions according 
to which ‘Umar prayed in the church of St Mary and in this fashion, sanctified it for Islam, 
the church of St Mary definitely maintained its status, as can be seen from the Christian 
sources. See the Muslim sources collected by Caetani, III (1), 937; cf. the discussion: 
Dressaire, EO, 15(1912), 237. 


433 



THE CHRISTIANS 


being dealt with here is still Pope Martin’s struggle against Mono- 
theletism; an appeal to him from John, abbot of the monastery Mar Saba 
and others in the monastery, has been preserved, in which they request 
that the Lateran Council (649) take action against Monotheletism. With 
regard to the period after the conquest, when the relationship between 
Islam and Byzantium and its partisans, people of the Church injerusalem, 
was at its most tense, it is reasonable to assume that the clergy in Palestine 
could more easily maintain ties with Rome. Apparently, Pope Martin 
I even tried to establish direct contact with the Muslims and indeed, 
such accusations were made against him in Constantinople, but he 
managed to explain away his actions and to free himself of all suspicion, by 
claiming, so he said, that his only motive was to send donations to 
Jerusalem. 3 

[664] Arculf, the Christian traveller who visited Jerusalem in around 
670, finds little to tell of the life of the Christians and the Church there, and 
merely describes the holy places and a miracle concerning Jesus’ shawl, as 
told to him by the people ofjerusalem. This shawl, they said, was stolen 
by a Jew from Jesus’ grave and bequeathed to his descendants, who by 
virtue of this memento, acquired great wealth and property. Until in 
Caliph Mu‘awiya’s day, three years before Arculf s visit, the shawl was 
discovered with the help of some Jewish ‘believers’ (that is, Jewish con¬ 
verts to Christianity). Both parties, thejews and the Christians, appealed 
to the caliph to judge between them, and he agreed to do so. He ordered 
that the shawl be thrown into the fire, but the fire naturally did not con¬ 
sume it and it floated in the wind until it finally alighted on the side of the 
Christians. Some see in this story evidence of the atmosphere prevailing 


3 It is not dear from what they write about the church of St Mary whether the Muslim 
sources mean the church in the Kidron Valley or theNea or the Church of the Resurrection. 
See: Mansi, X, 805-814, 909; Dositheos (seeon him: DTC, IV, 1788-1800) in Papadopou- 
los-Kerameos, Analekta, I, 240f; he quotes this account from Anastasius Bibliothecarius, 
but we do not find it in his chronicle (based mainly on Theophanes’ chronicle). See the 
letters ofMartin I:Jaffe, Regesta, I, 231 (Nos. 2064—2070); cf. Pargoire, L’eglise, 154; Vailhe, 
EO, 3(1899-1900), 20, who tries to straighten the matter out; according to his description, 
it is Sergius, the bishop of Jaffa, who headed the Church in Palestine at first, and was 
considered a heretic by Pope Theodore I, who proclaimed Stephen of Dor patriarch, while 
Martin I, his successor, placed the management of the affairs of the Church in Palestine in 
the hands of John of ‘Amman and his aides, among them Theodore of Heshbon and 
Antoninus of Baccatha. In the sources, however, these things are far from being that clear. 
Another link between Martin I and Palestinian people is mentioned in the year 652, when 
‘slaves of God’ who came from the Holy Land, visited him and asked for donations; see 
Mansi, X, 240, 395, cf. Riant, AOL, I, 28; see further on Stephen of Dor, John bishop of 
Philadelphia, etc.: Amann, DTC, VIII, 1000. On relations with the Muslims, see Martin’s 
letter XIV, in MPL 87; the letter begins on p. 197 and the account of the Muslims 
( Sarracenoi ) is on p. 199; cf. Runciman, Pilgrimages (he has mistakenly, letter XV). 


434 



CHRISTENDOM IN JERUSALEM [SECS. 665-671J 

among the Christians of Jerusalem at the time - an atmosphere steeped in 
superstition, giving credence to miracles and the supernatural. 4 

Christendom in Jerusalem 

[665] In 638, at the time of the Muslim conquest, Jerusalem was entirely 
a city of Christendom, and all its inhabitants were Christians. The city was 
full of churches and monasteries. Arculf, who as I have mentioned, visited 
Jerusalem around a generation after the conquest, described its holy places 
but his description is undoubtedly incomplete. Pride of place is naturally 
given to the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. According to him, it was in the 
form of a circle (commonly called the rotunda) surrounded by three walls; 
this is the Anastasis, that is, the resurrection. The church was supported by 
twelve columns. Along the central wall stood three altars. Close by the 
Church of the Holy Sepulchre, to the south, was the Church of St Mary, 
which was square in format. We know that this Church of St Mary 
belonged to the monastery of the Spoudaei (monks of a monastery in 
Constantinople, the Spoudaion, or perhaps they were so-called because of 
the literal meaning of the word — ‘the alert’) which was above the Anastasis 
(Church of the Resurrection), and Arculf is not very precise in this matter. 
On the eastern side stood the Church of the Golgotha (Latin: calvaria; 
Greek: kranion) where Arculf was particularly impressed by the lighting 
fixture: a copper wheel with lamps, suspended by ropes, and beneath it a 
large silver cross indicating the place where the original wooden cross 
formerly stood. 

Moving eastward, past the Church of the Golgotha (the Calvary), stood 
Constantine’s church, the martyrium, where (in the days of Helena, Con¬ 
stantine’s mother) the holy cross was discovered together with the two 
crosses ‘of the criminals’. Between the two, the Calvary and the Mar¬ 
tyrium, stood ‘Abraham’s Altar’ where a large wooden table stood on 
which charitable donations were placed. Some two generations after 
Arculf, the place was described by Willibald, who restricts himself, 
however, to depicting only the Sepulchre on which a large square stone in 
the form of a pyramid rested, with fifteen vessels containing oil to keep the 
lighting continuously aglow. The original stone which the angel rolled off 
the opening of the grave at the time of Jesus’ resurrection was also kept 
there. At the beginning of his account in around 870, the monk Bernard 
speaks of four churches but he only describes three: the one named for 
Constantine in the east, the other in the south and one in the west; the 

4 SeeTobler et Molinier, I, 155, and see there, 219, the account of Beda. on the same matter; 
see the Hebrew version in Ish-Shalom, Masse'e noserim, 221f; Baumstarck, Palastinapilger, 
47; see ibid., 80, on the considerable spiritual influence of Christian Jerusalem at that time, 
which can be seen from the Church poetry and ritual. 


435 



THE CHRISTIANS 


sepulchre is situated in the western church, and it is surrounded by nine 
columns which are connected by walls built of excellent stone. In early 
Arab sources, the Golgotha is called by its Greek name kranion, al-aq- 
raniyiin, but zlso juljulta at times. According to al-Mutahhar al-Maqdisi, 
the grave of Adin b. Zechariah was also situated there, and we do not 
know who is being referred to. 5 

[666] Apart from the buildings around the Holy Sepulchre, we can 
divide those churches of which we have actual knowledge into the follow¬ 
ing groups: (1) the Mount of Olives, (2) the Kidron Valley (which is the 
Valley ofjehoshaphat in the Christian sources, the southern part of which 
is sometimes called the Valley of St Jacob), (3) east of the Cardo, which 
was the main artery (north-south) of Jerusalem at that time (although the 
name is not to be found in the sources of the period under discussion; 
during the Crusaders’ era, it was called the Street of St Stephen), (4) west 
of the Cardo, (5) south of the city, and (6) outside the walls. 

Two churches stood in the area of the Mount of Olives, according to 
Willibald. One was the church wherejesus spoke to his pupils before his 
crucifixion, which is the Church of the Sermon, or the Church of the 
Mount of Olives, the Eleona (from Elaion, of [the Mount of] Olives). 
Constantine’s mother, Helena, is credited with its construction. This 
church stood above the cave mentioned by Arculf, where it is said that 
Jesus met with his pupils. Arculf does not refer to the church, merely to the 
cave, and it is possible that the church stood in ruins in his day. The place is 
also mentioned (with no reference to the church) by the monk Bernard. In 
Milik’s opinion, this is the church of which remains were recently dis¬ 
covered near the Dominus jievit of our time. The other church mentioned 
by Willibald is the Church of the Ascension. This church was built in 378, 
and restored by the monk Modestus after the Perisan conquest in 614. An 

5 From here onward, the description of the churches in Jerusalem is based mainly on the 
accounts of Arculf, Willibald, Beda, on De casis Dei and the monk Bernard, which can all be 
found in Tobler et Molinier, I, 157-159, 221, 264-268, 301f, 315; on the surveys of Abel in 
DACL, VII, 2318ff, 2351; see the map there, after p. 3336; on the survey of Milik in RB, 
67(1960), 358-367, 550-556, and in MVS], 37 (1961), 145-151, and there will be no further 
detailed references to these sources, which are convenient for the use of the reader. Beda 
generally repeats what Arculf has said. Petrides, EO, 4(1900-1901), 227f, deals with the 
question of the Spoudaei and tries to prove that they were Byzantine monks, connected 
with the monastery in Constantinople, known since the fifth century; they lived near the 
Church of the Holy Sepulchre. In his opinion, the monastery Panagia megale, which stood 
to the south-west of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, belonged to them. Aqraniyun: see 
SaTd ibn Bitrlq, I, 135; Maqdisl, Bad’, IV, 88. See also the survey of Leclercq in DTC, XV, 
517-538; see the discussion on Arculf s description: Mommert, ZDPV, 20:34, 1897; and in 
contrast: Clermont-Ganneau, Receuil, II, 250f; see the sources and the discussion: Vincent 
et Abel, Jerusalem, II, 218—247, and the survey on the Church of the Holy Sepulchre: 
Macpherson, EHR, 7(1892), 669-671; see on the theological significance of the buildings: 
Linder, in Perdqim, 13. See the discussion on the matters of architecture in the Church of the 
Holy Sepulchre and its development in Couasnon, The Church of the Holy Sepulchre. 


436 



CHRISTENDOM IN JERUSALEM [SECS. 665-671] 


inscription was found there commemorating the work of restoration. De 
casis Dei refers to a third church on the Mount of Olives, in the name of St 
Mary, but apparently the reference is to the church in the Kidron Valley. 
According to the same source, there were also monks’ cells on the mount, 
inhabited by eleven Greek (that is, Byzantine) psalmists, four Georgians, 
six Syrians (that is, Aramaic speakers), two Armenians, five Latins and 
one Arab. Near the steps of the Mount of Olives, there were, according to 
him, two solitary monks, one a Syrian and the other a Greek, and another 
three living near the Gethsemane (on the northern slope of the Kidron 
valley): a Greek, a Syrian and a Georgian, and another in the Valley of 
Jehoshaphat. In the area of the Mount of Olives, there is also mention of 
the ‘Monastery of the Virgins’ which was perhaps in the Kidron Valley as 
well, where twenty-six nuns lived. It seems that the monks on the Mount 
of Olives became well known. In the chronicle of Eginhard, Dominicus, 
‘the monk from the Mount of Olives’ is mentioned (in the year 826). 6 

[667] In the Kidron Valley, one should mention firstly the (‘temporal’) 
grave of St Mary. A round, two-story structure stood on the grave, 
according to Arculf. On the upper story, there were four altars. Close to 
this building, to the south, was the Church of the Gethsemane, which 
Arculf does not mention; he speaks only of the vicinity of the Gethsemane. 
Indeed, according to the evidence of Sa‘Id ibn Bitriq, the Church of the 
Gethsemane was destroyed during the Persian conquest and was never 
rebuilt. According to sources quoted by Milik, the ‘Cave of the Betrayal’ 
was arranged to be used as a place of prayer, and according to present-day 
archaeological exploration, it was still considered a sacred place in the 
early Arab period. Willibald mentions the Church of St Mary in the 
Kidron Valley, as does the monk Bernard, who says that it was ‘a church 
in honour of St Mary, and it had a library (established) with the help of the 
emperor (Charlemagne), with twelve compounds, fields, vineyards and a 
plantation - in the Valley ofjehoshaphat’. This has generally been inter¬ 
preted as meaning that in the Valley ofjehoshaphat there were estates 
donated by Charlemagne to another church in the name of St Mary, which 
was allegedly built in the ‘Latin’ quarter, south of the Church of the Holy 
Sepulchre, but it is more likely that Bernard is speaking here of that same 
church in the Kidron Valley. 

Other churches stood in the Kidron Valley: the church in the name of St 
Leontius, which was near St Mary’s grave and the church of the Geth¬ 
semane, the church of the Forty Saints (the Quaranta [the saints of Sebas- 

6 See on the Eleona: Garitte, Le Museon, 73 (1960), 127f; it was also called ton matheton, the 
church of the pupils, and seems to have been the burial place of the patriarchs ofjerusalem. 
See: Einhardi annales, 214. The Russian traveller, the abbot Daniel, who visited Jerusalem 
in 1106, also describes the Church of the Ascension (see Daniel, 25). 


437 



THE CHRISTIANS 


tia]), and nearby, an Armenian monastery (Monophysite) also called after 
them. Two other buildings stood there, called after St Christopher and St 
Aquilina. This group of churches in the northern part of the Kidron Valley 
is mentioned also by the anonymous guide from the Geniza: ‘the churches 
built by Solomon, to study the teachings of the Ammonites and the 
Moabites’. According to him, this place was in the vicinity of the Valley of 
Hinnom (Gehinnom); according to what has been preserved of his de¬ 
scription, the churches stood on both sides of the road leading up to the 
Mount of Olives, and it is interesting that Mas’udi, writing about a 
century before this guide, in the first half of the tenth century, also 
attributes the construction of some of the Christian churches in Jerusalem 
to King Solomon. 7 

[668] A subject which merits a study of its own is that of the buildings in 
the southern part of the Kidron Valley. In Antiochus Eustratius’ descrip¬ 
tion of the massacre of the Christians in Jerusalem at the time of the Persian 
conquest, the ‘Church of the Samaritan Woman’ is mentioned as being 
nearby the site where 723 Christians were slaughtered. From this descrip¬ 
tion, written originally in Greek, versions have been preserved in Arabic 
and Georgian. In the Arabic version, we read: wa-min harat smrtq’ sab‘ami’a 
thalatha wa-‘ishrin, and another version: min quddam kanisat al-samira (‘op¬ 
posite the Church of the Samaritan woman’). The Georgian version 
speaks of‘the church of the Samaritan woman’. Apparently in the original 
version, it said ‘the quarter of the church named after the Samaritan 
woman’ and its above-mentioned name in Arabic is also found in the 
Geniza documents and in Karaite sources, due to the fact that afterwards it 
was in that area that the Karaites established their quarter: smrtq’, and this is 
none other than the Greek-Byzantine name Samareitike (the Samaritan 
woman) and should be vocalised accordingly. Here we must make use of a 
later source, al-HarawI’s book on the holy places, written at the beginning 
of the thirteenth century. He says: wa-bi’l-quds kanisat al-ya‘aqiba biha 

1 See the ‘guide of Palestine': 2, I, b, lines 3-7; Mas'udi, Muruj, I, 111, counts among the 
churches, the al-Jismaniyya (in addition to the Church of the Holy Sepulchre and the 
Church of Zion). Barbier de Meynard, editor and translator of the book, translated 
VIncarnation, according to the assumed literal meaning of the Arabic word (from jism, 
body); however a church by this name is unknown in Jerusalem; this name (found in other 
sources as well), al-Jismaniyya, is evidently merely a distortion of Gethsemane. According 
to Mas'udi, it contained the grave of King David. As to the church of St Mary, one may 
assume that it was destroyed at the time of al-Hakim’s decrees. Riant claims that it was 
restored before the Crusades; he based this claim on a document preserved by the Bene¬ 
dictines and according to which Hugo, abbot of the Benedictine monastery during the 
latter half of the eleventh century, sent certain relics to Simon Crispiacensis (who is Simon 
d’Amiens et Crepy), when he was ‘abbot of (the monastery of) the grave of the Holy Virgin 
Mary in (the Valley) ofjehoshaphat’; White, Speculum, 9:404,1934, has already proven that 
the document is forged, ahd was intended to explain (in 1740) the existence of relics in the 
monastery of St Arnulf in Crepy. 


438 



CHRISTENDOM INJERUSALEM [SECS. 665-671] 

bi’r yuqal an al-masih ightasal minhd wa-amanat al-samira ‘ala yadihi ‘indaha 
wa-yazuriinhd (‘and in Jerusalem there is the church of “the Jacobs” con¬ 
taining a well in which they say the Messiah is supposed to have washed 
and alongside which the Samaritan woman received her creed [and the 
Christians] visit it and believe in it’). It is clear here that this is a reference to 
the Samaritan woman whose meeting with Jesus is described in the Gospel 
according to John, ch. iv. Although it says there that the meeting took 
place in Sykhar in Samaria (there are various suggestions as to the identity 
of the place, but who can say anything definite about it?), the fact is that 
her memory was immortalised injerusalem. Thus, this church was named 
both after the ‘Samaritan woman’s well’ within its confines and after ‘the 
Jacobs’. It is not thejacobites who are meant but rather the twojacobs, one 
the brother of Jesus (the younger, the son of Alphaeus), and the other, 
Jacob the Apostle (son of Zebedee). De casis Dei mentions a church in the 
name of Stjacob, in thejehoshaphat Valley. ‘The Guide to Palestine’ of the 
Geniza reinforces our awareness of the fact that this church was indeed 
situated in the Kidron Valley, for it explicitly states that the church of 
Jacob, brother of the Messiah ( kamsat ya ‘qub akhu’l-masih) is situated above 
one of the monuments in the Kidron Valley. According to its description, 
the famous structure, the ‘Tomb of the Bene Hezir’ is meant. John of 
Wurzburg also mentions the building (in around 1165) when speaking of 
the remains of the grave of Jacob son of Alphaeus, as does another source 
from the year 1320, Franciscus Pipinus: there Jacob son of Zebedee was 
executed on Herod’s orders and on that place there is a small domed 
building and an altar. The three buildings in the Kidron Valley are men¬ 
tioned by Arculf: the tower ofjehoshaphat, which is evidently Absalom’s 
Tomb; the tombs of St Simeon and St Joseph, which are evidently the 
‘tomb of Bene Hezir’; and die tomb of Zechariah. A Christian source prior 
to the Muslim conquest, Theodore (or Theodosius), speaks (in around 
600) of St Jacob, St Zechariah and St Simeon, who were buried in one 
grave ( Sanctus Jacobus et sanctus Zacharias et sanctus Simeon in una memoria 
positi sunt). Jewish popular tradition was more unequivocal and generally 
ascribed the building known today by this name to Zechariah (Zechariah 
the priest, who was stoned by command of King Joash, 2 Chr., xxiv:20- 
21). However, ‘the guide ofPalestine’ of the Geniza assigns it to Oman the 
Jebusite and also mentions the cave to which it is connected. This derives 
from the proximity of the place to the ‘city of David’, which was once the 
city of the Jebusites. 8 

8 See Antiochus’ story, MS Bibliotheque nationale, Paris, No. 262, in the Arabic collection, 
edited by Couret, ROC 2(1897), 153; see the translation ibid ., 163 (byj. Broyde). Cf. 
Clermont-Ganneau, PEFQ(1898), 44; see the matter of the Georgian versions: Conybeare, 
EHR, 25:502, 1910; Peeters, Trefonds, 210; see also Vincent et Abel, Jerusalem II (2), 928 
(they interpret: ‘the synagogue [1] of the Samaritans’); as to the Arabic version, I proposed 


439 



THE CHRISTIANS 


[669] De casts Dei also speaks of the church in the name of Cyriacus, 
which is also mentioned in the aforementioned tract of Antiochus Eu- 
stratius, on the massacre during the Persian conquest. There was evidently 
also a wadi called after Cyriacus, and this church was situated in the village 
of Yason and called by its full name after the Saints Cyriacus and Julitta. 
Milik identifies the place with the Wadi Yasul at the southern corner of the 
Mount of Olives, approximately one kilometre south of the Kidron 
Valley. The church of St John is also mentioned, which according to Abel 
was in this region, although in Milik’s opinion, it was situated outside the 
city wall, at the foot of the Mount of Olives. This is confirmed by what is 
said in De casts Dei and also by the monk Bernard. 

East of the Cardo, that is, between the Cardo and the Temple Mount, 
we find three churches in the period we are dealing with: the Church of St 
Mary in probatica, that is, alongside the Sheep Pool and the Sheep Gate 
(called bab al-asbat [of the tribes], St Stephen’s Gate, today the Lions’ Gate) 
to the north-east of the city (where Mary is said to have been born, and 
where the house of Anne and Jehoiakim was also shown); the church of 
Cosmas mentioned in De casis Dei (although Milik assumes it to have been 
outside the city wall); the church of St Sophia, which is said to have stood 
on the site of the Praetorium, or ‘house of Pontius Pilate’, between the 
Holy Sepulchre and the Probatica mentioned above. Apparently it was a 
ruin during the period under discussion. 

West of the Cardo, that is between the Cardo and the western wall 
(apart from the buildings surrounding the Holy Sepulchre), mention is 
made of only two churches: the church of St Theodore, which it seems 
was west of the Holy Sepulchre, although there is some doubt about this, 
as shown by Milik; and the church of St Sergius, which was contiguous 
with the north-eastern side of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. 

In the south of the city, there were two famous churches. One, the 
church of Zion, stood according to Willibald ‘in the middle ofjerusalem’. 
It was said that it was on the site where Jesus’ disciples wanted to bury his 
mother Mary, but the angels came and carried her off to heaven, to 

the correct vocalised reading of smrtq* (Gil, Shalem, 2 [1975/6], 35), without knowing then 
that Milik, MUSJ, 37(1961), 136, had already proposed this reading; see the matter of the 
distorted readings in the two aforementioned references. However, Milik errs in placing 
the church ‘of the Samaritan woman’ in the neighbourhood of today’s Armenian quarter; 
see al-HarawI, 27; see the French translation: Schefer, AOL, 1(1881), 604, who translates: 
l’eglise des Jacobites. ‘The guide of Palestine’, see 2, I, a, lines 18—19; b, line 2. See the 
account of John of Wurzburg: Tobler, Palestinae Descriptions, 167; and the account of 
Franciscus Pipinus in Tobler, Dritte Wanderung, 405; on Zechariah’s tomb see: Tobler, 
Itinera , 18, 66, 220f; idem, Topogr., II, 269;Jeremias, Heiligengraber, 67ff; Slouschz, Qoves , I 
(1925), 37; Tobler, Palestinae Descriptiones, 36, 113; idem, Dritte Wanderung, 345; see the 
detailed descriptions and discussions in Avigad, Massevot. The structures in the Kidron 
Valley are also mentioned in Nasir Khusraw, 21 (text), 69 (translation). 


440 



CHRISTENDOM IN JERUSALEM [SECS, 665-671] 


Paradise. According to the monk Bernard, the church was called after St 
Simeon. It was originally an ancient building, and in its attic ( hyperoon ), 
according to Epiphanius, the early Christians would congregate, and it 
was therefore also called the Church of the Cenaculum, and thought to be 
the first church. The other was ‘the new church in the name of St Mary’, 
which is the Nea. According to Procopius and Cyril of Scythopolis, it was 
built on the emperor Justinian’s orders and inaugurated on 20 November 
543. Procopius describes the unusual building process, as it had very large 
proportions and the builders wished to achieve the greatest possible 
height, and they therefore built it partly on the ground and partly on a 
special subterranean structure put up for this purpose. He especially noted 
the extremely unusual columns of its facade, made of red stone. Of the 
Latin Christian sources of this period, only De casis Dei mentions it, noting 
that twelve churchmen resided there. The fact that the writings of Latin 
travellers of the time say nothing about this church, confirms the evidence 
of Sa‘Id ibn Bitriq that the Nea remained a ruin ever since the Persian 
conquest. At the end of the ninth century, the Karaite Daniel al-QumisI 
mentions the Nea in his commentary on Daniel, xi: 31-32 (and arms shall 
stand... and they shall place the abomination that maketh desolate... but 
the people ... shall be strong ...): ‘after him strong people from among 
his nation [of the King of the South, who is the Byzantine emperor] . .. 
and they will lay ... the church of the Niyya desolate’. It appears, 
however, that he intended to say that it was the Ishmaelites who destroyed 
the Nea (‘laid it desolate’) and this contradicts what was said above and 
also what is said by Sa‘Id ibn Bitriq, that the Persians were responsible for 
destroying the Nea and the church of the Gethsemane ( al-jismaniyya ), and 
they are in ruins ‘until this very day’ (beginning of the tenth century). In 
around 985, MuqaddasI lists the Nea Gate (bab al-niyya) among the gates of 
Jerusalem and Yaqut copied this from him. Views on the exact site of the 
Nea were undecided, and there was a supposition that it stood on the 
Temple Mount, on the spot where the Muslims built al-Aqsa; but in 1869, 
Couret disproved this opinion. One must also mention in this area the 
church in the name of St Thaleleus, which was evidently near the Church 
of Zion, and is mentioned in De casis Dei ; the church in the name of St 
George, in the same area apparently; the tomb of St Stephen; and the 
church of St Peter. 9 

[670] There were other churches outside the city wall: the church of St 

9 See: Epiphanius, De mensuribus et pondcribus, MPG 43, 261; Couret, La Palest., 23; 
Procopius, De aedificiis, V, 6 (Loeb VII, 342-348); Kyrillos Scythop. (ed. Schwartz), 
175-178, 216; Daniel al-QumisI, see TS 10 C 2, ed. Mann, JQR, NS 12(1922), 518, 
misprinted there: TS 10 G 2; Mann did not realise that al-Niyya means the Nea, and 
suggested to correct it as: the church of al-Yunaniyya (the Greek church), and assumed that 
the Church of the Holy Sepulchre was being spoken of. Cf. also Ben-Shammai, Shalem, 


441 



THE CHRISTIANS 


Stephen, in the north; the church of St Mamilla (so it is written in De casts 
Dei), undoubtedly in the neighbourhood of the pool mentioned in the 
story of Antiochus Eustratius (and also in other church sources and in Sa‘id 
ibn Bitriq) as the place where most of the massacre of Christians took place 
at the time of the Persian conquest. A church named for Dometius (in De 
casis Dei) about which we have no further information, and in De cash Dei 
as well as Willibald, the church of the Holy Cross, which stood on the spot 
where the cross was found in the days of Helena, Constantine’s mother. In 
that church, it was said, Jesus’ shawl was kept, to which the legend 
mentioned above referred. It appears that this church (in the Valley of the 
Cross) was destroyed during al-Hakim’s decrees, since we have been told 
of its rebuilding in 1038-1054 on the initiative of the king of Georgia, 
Bagrat the Fourth. 10 

[671] De cash Dei lists some thirty holy Christian buildings injerusalem, 
a very impressive number considering the fact that it reflects the situation 
after some 150 years of Muslim authority over the city. I have already 
discussed above the population of Jerusalem and the evidence that the 
Christians were the majority there. We have almost no information on the 
ties between the Jewish and the Christian populations injerusalem, apart 
from what has been said in former chapters on the rivalry between the two 
communities. In the Geniza letters there is almost no mention of the 
Christians. There are only a few facts about commercial ties with a 
Christian (‘arel, or in Arabic- nasrant). The epigraphic finds on Christians 
injerusalem from that time are also very scarce indeed. 11 


Christianity in other Palestinian localities 

[672] Whereas in the case ofjerusalem, there are a number of sufficiently 
detailed and reliable sources, especially those of the Christian travellers, on 

3(1981), 303; see also ibid., 305fF, a new revised version of this fragment. MuqaddasI, 
Aqaltm, 167, where in the main text we find: al-tth, which was generally understood as ‘the 
gate of the desert', but see there the version in the editor’s note o (according to the MS of 
Istanbul), and also Yaqut, Buldan, IV, 596, with the correct version: cf. on the reading of 
al-niyya also: Tsafrir, IEJ, 27(1977), 152. On the location of the Nea see: Couret, La 
Palestine, 181; but in 1905, Pargoire, L’eglise, 115, is still repeating that the Nea was built 
partly on the esplanade of the Temple. On the Nea in Antiochus Eustratius’ list, see (apart 
from Milik): Clermont-Ganneau, Recent!, II, 150f; see further; Creswell, Early Muslim 
Architecture 2 , 132; Avigad, Qadmoniyot, x, 80, 1977, on the unearthing of the Nea in 
excavations a few years back. As to the Church of St George, Milik assumes that it was 
outside the wall, in the neighbourhood of Sheikh Badr (today the Qirya). See also Sa‘id ibn 
Bitriq, I, 216. 

10 On the massacre in Mamilla, see Sa‘Td ibn Bitriq, I, 216; on the rebuilding of the church of 
the Holy Cross, see: Richard, Mel. Brunei, 424. 

11 See the inscription on the tombstone: Sharon, IEJ, 23(1973), 217f; dated 8 July 1002; the 
fact that the buried person was a Christian Sharon determined by the opening phrase: ‘in 
the name of the Living One, who shall not die’. 


442 



CHRISTIANITY ELSEWHERE IN PALESTINE [SECS. 672-675] 


few other places in Palestine is there much in the way of information 
concerning the Christian populations and Churches. One must bear in 
mind that the Christian population was mostly rural, while the Jews 
constituted the majority of the population in the towns. Some facts 
concerning the Christians have already been brought up in the discussion 
on the population and localities in Palestine; in what follows, I shall fill in 
mainly what is known to us with regard to churches and monasteries and a 
number of Christian personalities whose memory has been preserved. 

The most important monastery during this time was undoubtedly the 
Monastery of Mar Saba. During the seventh and eighth centuries, this 
monastery was a prominent centre of spiritual activities, with which the 
personality of John of Damascus was strongly involved. St Saba, after 
whom the monastery is called, was born in Caesarea of Cappadocia (Asia 
Minor) in 432. Although the monastery is named after him, he was not the 
founder, who was the Armenian Euthymius. In the seventh century, the 
first version of the story of Barlaam andjosaphat was written here by a 
monk named John (not John of Damascus, who came later), evidently 
after the story by a monk from India. The essence of the tale is that of the 
conversion to Christianity of an Indian prince, and it is a sort of paraphrase 
on the life of the young Buddha. It is possible that its author was John, 
abbot of the monastery, who was one of the first signatories to the petition 
to Pope Martin I on the subject of Monotheletism, which would be dealt 
with at the Council of Lateran. As to John of Damascus, he was a scion of 
that wealthy and aristocratic Christian Damascene family which collab¬ 
orated with the Muslims, a son of Sergius b. Mansur, and he was in fact 
called Mansur. It seems that John joined the Monastery of Mar Saba in 
around 732, together with his adopted brother, Cosmas, who afterwards 
became bishop of Mayumas, the port of Gaza, in 743. John of Damascus 
became known mainly as a fighter for the practice of image-worship and 
as such, aroused the wrath of the emperor Constantine V Copronymus 
(741-775), who called him manzeros (a bastard, on the basis of his Arabic 
name, Mansur). In 754, at the church council organised by the Iconoclasts, 
a ban was declared against him, and the version is that the Holy Trinity 
vanquished the three (John, the patriarch Germanus of Constantinople, 
and a certain Georgius of Cyprus, for the three were the leaders of the 
struggle against the ‘image-breakers’). This may have been an indication 
that John had died that year. Another famous personality linked to the 
monastery of Mar Saba was Stephen, the ‘miracle maker’, the nephew of 
John of Damascus, who was also a monk of the monastery from the year 
735. Theodore Abu Qurra, who afterwards became bishop of Haran, 
another ecclesiastic writer, was also a monk at the monastery. He lived 
from 740 to 820, approximately. 


443 



THE CHRISTIANS 


In what follows, we shall encounter the Monastery of Mar Saba in 
connection with persecution and brutality, in the main. In the mid¬ 
eleventh century, we hear about the monk Lazaros, of Magnesia in Caria 
on the river Meander in Asia Minor. He was a monk at the monastery on 
Mount Gelasion in that region. Afterwards he travelled to Palestine and 
joined the monastery of Mar Saba, remained there for six years and earned 
the esteem of the Jerusalem patriarch, who at first appointed him arch¬ 
deacon and afterwards advanced him to the priesthood. He stayed for a 
while in Jerusalem but returned to Mar Saba and remained there ‘until the 
city and the churches were pillaged during the rule of Azizes’, meaning, of 
course, the decrees of al-Hakim, and he then decided to return to his own 
country. 12 

[673] Three churches stood on Mount Tabor according to Arculf. 
ShabushtI, ca. 1000, mentions only dayral-tur, the monastery of the Mount 
(Tabor), describing a small spring nearby, and stating that it stands atop 
the mountain, surrounded by vineyards. It was also called dayr al-tajalli, 
the monastery of the Revelation, because ‘Jesus appeared to his disciples 
there after ascending to heaven’. In De cash Dei (at the beginning of the 
ninth century) it is said that a bishop named Theophanes stayed on the 
mountain. It also states that there were four churches there, one in the 
name of the Saviour, on the site where he spoke with Moses and Elijah; 

12 John, the abbot of the monastery: Mansi, X, 909; cf. Vailhe, EO, 3(1899-1900), 20; see the 
biography ofjohn of Damascus by John, patriarch ofjerusalem, in MPG 94, 430-502 and 
see p. 430 in the footnote: this is not John the patriarch of the time of Leo III, the Isaurian 
(717-741), who was a contemporary ofjohn ofDamascus; see: Jugie, EO, 28:35, 1929, on 
the identity of the author of the biography; some thought that it was John VI, the patriarch 
ofjerusalem who was killed in 966, and see ibid. , 35, the assumption that the author is John 
VIII, patriarch ofjerusalem during the Crusaders’ period (1105), who was a Jerusalemite 
who had lived in the city before the conquest. Jugie mentions two other biographies of 
John of Damascus there, one written in Arabic by a monk of Antioch, inl085, and another 
whose manuscript is preserved in the church of St Mark in V enice, and was edited in Oriens 
Christianas, VIII, by M. Gordillo. Earlier, Jugie published an article summarising the life 
ofjohn ofDamascus: EO, 23:137, 1924. For confirmation thatjohn ofDamascus was the 
grandson of Mansur the collaborator: see William of Tripoli’s treatise on the Muslims, in 
Prutz, Kulturgeschichte, 575-598 (written in 1273, see p. 579 ibid.)-, see also: Erhard, 
Rdmische Quartalschrifi, 7(1893), 35; Vailhe, EO, 3(1888/9), 34-37 (Vailhe has there a list of 
John’s writings); Lammens, Mo'awia, 395, who is very sceptical with regard to the 
biography of John of Damascus attributed to John the patriarch; in his opinion this is 
merely a collection of legends; see the article on John of Damascus in Bardenhewer, 
Geschichte, V, 51—65. See onjohn ofDamascus, also Blake, he Museon, 78(1965), 369ff; his 
dates differ somewhat from mine. On Stephen ‘the miracle maker’: Vailhe, EO, 3(1899- 
1900), 22f; idem, ROC, 6(1901), 316. On Theodore Abu Qurra: Graf, Die arabischen 
Schrifien. idem, GCAL, II, 7-21; Brockelmann, Geschichte der christlichen Litteraturen des 
Orients , 68; on the monk Lazaros: Kurtz, BZ, 7:474, 1898; cf. Dolger, Regesten, No. 855 
(letters written by the emperor Constantine IX to a monk, a swindler who pretended to 
have brought Constantine, before he became emperor, an alleged prophecy in the name of 
that Lazaros, that he was fated to become emperor); cf. Canard, Byzantion, 35(1965), 19, 
n. 1, on the confusion between al-Hakim and his father, al-‘Aziz. 


444 



CHRISTIANITY ELSEWHERE IN PALESTINE [SECS. 672-675] 

another in the name of‘Holy Moses’ and the other in the name of the ‘Holy 
Elijah’. The name of the fourth church has not been preserved there. 
Willibald only mentions the monastery and a church dedicated to the 
Saviour, Moses and Elijah. At the beginning of the Crusaders’ rule, the 
Russian traveller, the abbot Daniel, mentions three churches, of which 
one is of the Transfiguration, and the other in the name of the ‘Holy 
prophets Moses and Elijah’. John Phocas (in the eleventh century) notes 
two monasteries on Mount Tabor and he enthuses on the view over¬ 
looking the swamps and the River Jordan. 13 

[674] In Nazareth, Arculf says that he found two very large churches, 
the one in the centre of the city, on the site of the house wherejesus lived as 
a boy, and the second on the site where Gabriel appeared to Mary. He is 
speaking of the church of the Nutritio, the site of which is not known, and 
of the Church of the Annunciation. Some two generations later, Willibald 
mentions only the Church of the Annunciation. As to Gaza, we have 
already seen that in the eighth century, Mayumas, the port area of Gaza, 
was the seat of a bishop. In the mid-eleventh century, there is still a bishop 
there called Samonas, who is credited with having written a polemical 
treatise entitled The argument with the Arab Ahmad. In Shechem, Arculf saw 
a church in the form of a cross, while in De casis Dei, it says that there was a 
large church there, where the ‘holy Samaritan woman’ is buried, as well as 
other churches. This city also was the seat of a bishop. A large church in 
Sebastia is also mentioned in this list, and it says that John the Baptist is 
buried there. In Sebastia at that time there was also a bishop whose name 
was Basil. I have already mentioned above the churches in Tiberias; now it 
is worth adding something from the accounts of Christian travellers in the 
Middle Ages. These describe Tiberias and the area around the Sea of 
Galilee, places that were known to be connected with the life of Jesus. 
Willibald mentions Magdala, Mary Magdalene’s village, and Capernaum. 
De casis Dei mentions a monastery called Heptapegon, ‘the seven springs’, 
which is Tabgha (usually called Tabha today), which is where the miracle 
of the loaves and the fishes occurred. Farther along, on the banks of the Sea 
of Galilee, there was the church called ‘the twelve chairs’ ( duodecim throno- 
rum) containing the table around which Jesus sat with his disciples. One 
should also mention here the Tiberian deacon Theodore, who in 862 
copied the Uncial Codex (that is, written in large letters an inch in height 
and separated from one another), the most ancient to be found in Palestine. 
This work was commissioned by the local bishop, Noah. Mention is made 
of Stephen ibn Hakam, of Ramla, who copied a Christian-Arab theologi- 

13 See Arculf in Tobler et Molinier, I, 184f; De casis Dei, ibid., 304; Willibald, ibid., 260; 

Shabushti, 25; Daniel (Khitrowo), 69; John Phocas, see: Dieterich, Byzantinische Quellen, 

I, 65. 


445 



THE CHRISTIANS 


cal treatise ascribed to Theodore Abu Qurra, at the behest of a certain anba 
(‘father’) Basil. He finished the work in December 877 in the monastery of 
St Chariton and also copied the four Gospels, according to the pericopes, 
in AM 6389 (AH 284, AD 896). A copyist by the name of Da’ud al- 
‘ AsqalanI is also mentioned in Ascalon, who copied some of the Epistles of 
Paul in 902. Of somewhat far-off places, it is worth noting Fiq (which is 
Afeq), where in the year 1000 there still stood Dayr Fiq, a monastery 
which according to ShabushtI was claimed by the Christians to be the 
most ancient of monasteries. In al-Quwaysma near ‘Amman, an in¬ 
scription from the year 717 was found, referring to the restoration of a 
church and the paving of its floor with mosaics in the days of the priest 
Obeos and with the assistance of Makedonios, Abbibos and Ioannos (two 
of the names are distinctly Arabic: Ubbay, Habib). Another inscription is 
to be found in Ma‘in, eight kilometres south-west of Madaba, in the ruins 
of a church, with verses from the Psalms to mark the restoration of the 
church in 719/20. Here we have proof of the existence of a Christian 
population in the rural regions of Trans-Jordan, towards the end of the 
Umayyad period, in the days of‘Umar II ibn ‘Abd al-‘Az!z. From Adh- 
ruh, a manuscript copied by anba Musa b. Hakim al-QasIs (‘the priest’) in 
AH 288, that is AD 901, has been preserved. 14 

[675] From travellers’ accounts, and especially that of De casis Dei, it is 
worth mentioning additional churches and monasteries in Palestine: in 
Bethlehem, priests and monks are mentioned in the Church of the Nativ¬ 
ity; also mentioned is the monastery in the name of St Theodosius with its 
seventy monks. Willibald notes that the Church of the Nativity is in the 
form of a cross, while Bernard the Monk, in the ninth century, speaks of 
the very large church of St Mary and describes the crypt of the birth. 
According to Saewulf, the pilgrim who wrote in 1102, the Muslims 
utterly destroyed Bethlehem, apart from the Church of the Nativity (he 
calls it the church of St Mary). There is also mention of the monasteries of 
St Chariton and St Euthymius in the neighbourhood of Jerusalem (in 
Khan al-Ahmar, in the region of Ma‘ale Adummlm). In Koziba there was 
a monastery in the name of St Mary. On the River Jordan was the 
monastery of St John, as well as a church, at the site where the pilgrims 

14 Nazareth: Arculf, ibid., 184; Willibald, ibid., 260; the treatise of Samonas: Dialexis pros 
Akhmedtou Sarakettou, MPG 120, 821—834. Shechem, Sebastia: Arculf, ibid., 181 f; De casis 
Dei, ibid., 304. The codex of Tiberias: Ehrhardt, Romische Quartalschrijt, 5(1891), 257; see 
Willibald, ibid., 261; De casis Dei, ibid., 304. Stephen (Istafna) of Ramla, the theological 
treatise; BM Or 4950; see Graf, GCAL, II, 16f; the Gospels: MS Sinai, No. 72, see: 
Padwick, MW, 29(1939: after p. 135 there is a photograph of the colophon); cf. Blau, 
Scripta Hierosolymitana , 9(1961), 208. Da‘ud al-‘Asqalani: Troupeau, Catalogue, II, 107 
(No. 6725-3). Dayr Fiq: ShabushtI, 14. The inscription of Quwaysma, see: Sailer, JPOS, 
21(1948), 140ff; The inscription of Ma‘in: De Vaux, RB, 47(1938), 239f; Adhruh: MS 
Strasbourg, see: Oestrup, ZDMG, 52(1897), 455. 


446 



CHRISTIAN SECTS [SECS. 676-682] 


went down to bathe in the river; and also a monastery in the name of St 
Stephen; on Mount Paran (near ‘Ayn Fara, in the mountains ofjerusalem) 
there was a monastery in the name of St Theoctistus. He also mentions the 
monastery at Kafr Kanna. 15 


Christian sects 

[676] Apparently, the singular situation in Jerusalem does not reflect 
what was happening among the Christians throughout Palestine at that 
time. One may assume that whilejerusalem was subject to the unqualified 
influence of the Byzantine Church, the Monophysite Church carried more 
weight throughout the land, particularly in the villages. We already find 
evidence of this in the findings at Nessana where two inscriptions bear the 
term Theotokos (mother of God), characteristic of Monophysitism; the 
term is also found in one of the documents discovered there, dated 16 July 
605, and in another document whose exact date is unknown, but which is 
around the Muslim conquest. One should bear in mind that the Christian 
population was Syriac (that is, Aramaic) speaking, and that this was the 
language of its churches, including the Melkite, which was under the 
authority of Byzantium. Evidence from the pre-Muslim period shows 
that this population did not speak Greek, and the Church sources in¬ 
directly confirm this, as exemplified by the story of the child who spoke of 
the destruction of a pagan temple, in the biography of Porphyrius written 
by Mark the Deacon: a child of seven ‘said it in the language of the 
Syrians’. The pilgrim Sylvia (also called Aetheria or Egeria) mentions in 
the fourth century that the population in Palestine speaks Syriste, that is 
Syriac, unlike the bishop, who speaks only Greek, although he may know 
Syriac; the priest (presbyter) who accompanies him translates the Greek 
into Syriac, as is also customary for the sermons in the church. The 
Byzantine writers, when using the word ‘Syrians’, also meant the retainers 
of the Orthodox patriarch, whose language of ritual was Syriac; but 
frequently thejacobite Monophysites were also meant (not the Maronites, 
who were rarely to be found outside the region of Lebanon; nor the 
Nestorians, who were few in number). However, the annals of the Jaco¬ 
bites during the period under discussion are obscure. It is known that they 
had bishops in Acre and Jerusalem, and that they submitted to the auth¬ 
ority of the Jacobite patriarch in Antioch; the Monophysite bishop in 
Jerusalem was never considered a patriarch, unlike his counterpart in 
Antioch. 16 

15 See Willibald, ibid., 260; De casis Dei, ibid., 304f; the monk Bernard, ibid., 317. See the 
articles by H. Leclercq: Bethleem, in DACL, II, 837; Palestine, ibid., XIII, 857-859; Cana, 
ibid., II, 1802ff; Kefr-Kenna, ibid., V, 702ff. 

16 See Nessana, 18; see papyrus No. 46, line 1, ibid., 136; No. 89, line 44, ibid., 257. See the 


447 



THE CHRISTIANS 


[677] We encounter an interesting phenomenon in the latter half of the 
tenth century, during the never-ending warfare going on in Palestine, 
when Byzantine influence was on the rise. It seems that while subject to 
threat on the part of the Byzantines, the Monophysite priests hastened to 
join the official Church, and perhaps this applies to entire rural communi¬ 
ties. Something of this state of affairs is revealed to us in the letter sent by 
Theodore, archbishop of Egypt, and Orestes, patriarch of Jerusalem, to 
Hugo Capet and his son and fellow-ruler Robert. They mention in this 
letter that they have sent emissaries to Rome to ask whether the Jacobite 
infidels (as the official Church spoke of the Jacobite priests) would be 
permitted to officiate as priests in the official Church if they were to return 
to the fold. 

It is a characteristic fact that the local Christians were called Sudani 
during the Crusaders’ rule, and it is more than likely that it is mostly 
Jacobites, as well as the other Eastern Christians who spoke Aramaic, who 
are being referred to. Thus, for instance, in jean d’lbelin’s book it says that 
‘the Syrian people’ came before the king and requested that their litigations 
be held according to their own customs whenever there is a dispute, and 
that the head of their court be called rays (in Arabic: ra’Ts) and that this 
custom, it is implied, be kept throughout the country and not only in 
Jerusalem. William of Tyre also calls the Christians of Jerusalem (who 
were, he says, people of the poorest level, wretched and impoverished) 
Sudani. 17 

[678] The Jacobite church in Jerusalem was in the monastery of Mary 
Magdalene (and Simon the Pharisee). It was also the seat of their patriarch 
from the Crusaders’ time and onward. According to Sawlrus’ version, the 
church was built during the time of Ya'qub, the Monophysite patriarch of 
Alexandria (819-830). Sawlrus tells that its building was financed by an 
Egyptian, Maqara (Macarius) al-Nabrawi (ofNabruwa) al-Arkhun (the 
arkhon, that is from among the notable Copts) who was a wealthy and 
generous man. His newborn son died a few days after birth, and the 
patriarch restored him to life through his prayers, a fact which became 
known injerusalem. As a token of his gratitude, Maqara built the church 

treatise of Mark the Deacon: Gregoire et Kugener (eds.), Marc le diacre. Vie de Porphyre, 
52-55, see there n. 1 on p. 52; see, ibid., 128f, additional literary proofs quoted by 
Gregoire, the editor, that Syriac was the major spoken language at the end of the fourth 
century and the outset of the fifth. See the account of Sylvia in the Heraeus ed., 51; cf: 
Peeters, Trefonds, 61; Rey, ROL, 8(1900,1901), 150; Every, ECQ, 6(1946), 363ff, 367; on 
the bishop of Antioch, who was considered the patriarch by the Monophysites, see: Nau, 
ROC, 4(1899), 323 (speaking of the year 659). 

17 See the letter to Hugo and Robert: MGH(SS), III, 686-690; by the way, it refers to another 
interesting fact, namely that out of fear of the Muslims, they can only have small altars in 
their churches; the time: about 990. See: Livre de Jean d’lbelin, ch. iv, RHC (Lois), I, 26. 
William of Tyre, 285; cf. also Prawer, ha-Salvanim, Index: Syrians. 


448 



CHRISTIAN SECTS [SECS. 676-682] 


of the Orthodox (‘those who held the correct creed’, by which Sawirus 
means Monophysites like himself) in Jerusalem, known by the name 
al-Majdalaniyya (that is, the church of Mary Magdalene). This account 
was written towards the end of the tenth century, describing something 
which happened around 820. According to information found in the 
account of Michael the Syrian, however, the church existed before then; it 
had been destroyed by order of Harun al-Rashid in the year 1118 ‘of the 
Greeks’, that is AD 807, and rebuilt during the rule of al-Ma’mun in the 
years 820-830 (what Sawirus describes as essentially the building of a new 
church). In 1092, when the Saljuqid sons of Artuq were in control of 
Jerusalem, and the governor of the city was thejacobite Christian Mansur, 
the latter restored the church, with the help of the patriarch of Antioch, 
Cyril II, who even sent a bishop to take part in its inauguration. At that 
time, thejacobite bishop of Jerusalem was Anastas of Caesarea. Two of 
his works are known; one on the fast of the Deipara (‘the mother of God’, 
the Latin equivalent of Theotokos), and the other a polemical work against 
the Armenians on religious matters. 18 

[679] The Nestorians, who were almost entirely concentrated in the 
eastern part of the Muslim world, and whose centre was Baghdad, were 
few and far between in Palestine and little is known about them. A version 
of a letter from the Nestorians in Jerusalem to Isaac of Nisibis has been 
preserved, which deals with refugees who fled from Iraq with the in¬ 
tention of reaching Jerusalem, but who then returned to Hira, on the 
Euphrates. A letter has also been preserved from the Catholicus Yisho‘- 
yhav to the Jerusalemites ‘Master Elia, Priest and Synkellos [aide of the 

18 See: Martin, JA, VIII—12 (1888), 477. Sawirus (PO, X[5]), 460f; Michael the Syrian, III, 21; 
cf. Vincent et Abel, Jerusalem, II, 938f; Meinardus, Copts, 11 (who had no knowledge of 
the account of Michael the Syrian); Michael the Syrian visitedjerusalem himself, in 1179 
(see his Chronicle, III, 379), where he mentions a Syriac book of Masorah belonging to the 
church ‘of the holy Mary Magdalene’, cf. Nau, ROC, 19(1914), 379f; also Bar Hebraeus 
mentions this church, in his church chronicle (ed. Abbeloos), I, 653f; thejacobite Patriarch 
of Antioch, Ignatius II and his retainers, stay in the church of Mary Magdalene, during 
their visit to Jerusalem, on Easter 1168, and then again in 1179. After the conquest of 
Jerusalem by Saladin, the building became a madrasa : al-Maymuniyya (in 1197); but in 1229, 
according to the treaty ofjaffa, under Frederick II, the monks returned there; see Vogue, 
Eglises, 292; he studied its ruins in 1854; see Chabot, AIBL, Comptes rendus, 1938, 452; 
Kawerau , Jakob. Kirche 2 , 111, 116. Cf. Cerulli, Etiopi in Palestina, 10-16; Sawirus, 11(3), 
229. On Anastas see: Rey, ROL, 8(1901), 150; Every, ECQ, 6(1946), 367. The treatise on 
the Deipara was printed, see in MPG 127, pp. 516ff, see the biographical details there, 517. 
On the madrasa al-Maymuniyya see: ‘Ulayml, 339. Its site, which was also the site of the 
Jacobite quarter, was near the Flower Gate (Herod’s Gate), that is, in the north-eastern 
comer of the city, and in the Middle Ages: between Jehoshaphat street and the wall. 
During the Crusaders’ times, this quarter was called ‘la Guiverie’ (other versions: Juderie, 
Juerie, Iueria, Judairia), that is, the Jews’ quarter; see: Tobler, Palestitiae Descriptiones, 219; 
Vogue, Eglises, 443; it is difficult to know the reason for this; perhaps because the place was 
assigned as the dwelling place for the handful of Jews living in Jerusalem in Crusaders’ 
times; see the discussion below, in sec. 839. 


449 



THE CHRISTIANS 


Head of the Church], Master Paul, Beadle and Archdeacon [evidently: 
chief of the church beadles], and Master Theodore, Beadle and Church¬ 
man, and to all Churchmen’; all these were people ‘of the Holy Congrega¬ 
tion of Jerusalem’. In this letter, emissaries are mentioned who came to 
Yisho‘yhav, who was ‘the Catholicus of the East’, namely ‘Masters Pro¬ 
copius and Cosmas’, and gratitude is expressed for the gifts sent him. He 
thanks everyone and especially the scribes who wrote the letter, Melchi- 
zedek and Qayoma, and the ‘slave-girl of God, Lady Pelagia’ (perhaps a 
nun). This letter was written in the middle of the seventh century. The 
appointment of a Nestorian bishop in Jerusalem is mentioned in 835; in 
893 the Nestorian bishop ofjerusalem, Eliajawhari, was raised in rank and 
became Metropolitan of Damascus. A treatise is known which he wrote 
on the religious consensus among the Syrians. In around 1040, in a 
commentary on the book of Genesis, the Baghdadian Nestorian priest Ibn 
al-Tayyib stressed the importance ofjerusalem, being the centre of the 
world, as the head is to the body (to Gen., xii:4; ‘So Abram departed ...’). 
From 1065, the head of the Nestorians in Jerusalem held the rank of 
Metropolitan. 19 

[680] The Georgians and the Armenians should be considered sep¬ 
arately. Those who came to Jerusalem from their homelands generally 
collaborated with each other and we find them in the main all together in 
their monasteries and churches. The Georgians (who were then called 
Iberians and Lazians) are already mentioned by Procopius in the sixth 
century. He states that there was a monastery of the Iberians built by the 
emperor Justinian in Jerusalem; in the Jerusalem desert, he built a monas¬ 
tery of the Lazians. Anastas of Armenia, writing in the seventh century, 
lists no less than seventy monasteries of the Armenians in Jerusalem, such 
as the monastery of Peter near the Siloam, outside the city (undoubtedly 
referring to the spring of Siloam and not the pool); the monastery of Panda 
(who is Pantaleon) on the Mount of Olives; the monastery of the forty 
martyrs, which was seized by the Muslims; the monastery of St John; and 
he mentions others there, in thejehoshaphat Valley and elsewhere, which 
were taken or destroyed by the Muslims, or abandoned because the monks 
could not pay the taxes. According to him, they also had a monastery near 
David’s Gate, which was the Yeretz monastery, and he also notes the 
monastery of the Gogarenes, near the gate of the Church of the Resurrec¬ 
tion. The Muslims also confiscated, according to him, three monasteries 

19 See: Iso'yahb, Epistulae, CSCO (Syri), 64, 215ff; 245f; cf. Hage, 81. The appointment of 
the bishop in 835: Atiya, 266. Elia, bishop ofjerusalem: Every, ECQ, 6(1946), 363, and see 
his treatise in al-Sam‘anI, Bibliotheca Orientals, III, 513-516: Tractatus de Concordia fidei inter 
Syros; cf. the article Syriens; eglise, by I. Ziade, in DTC, XIV, 3084. The commentary of 
Ibn al-Tayyib: CSCO (Arabici) 24, 62; see also: Graf, GCAL, I, 69; Spuler, Kirchen, 142, 
159; the metropolitan ofjerusalem: Atiya, 266. 


450 



CHRISTIAN SECTS [SECS. 676-682] 


of the Albanians. These monasteries were established, he says, during the 
reign of Tiridates and the priesthood of Gregorius. From the seventh 
century, Michael and Eustachius, the Georgian monks who lived in Sinai, 
are also mentioned. From the eighth century, or perhaps even earlier, 
there was a centre for translating and copying books in Georgian at the 
Mar Saba monastery. Similar centres existed in the monastery attached to 
the church of the Calvary and the one in Gabbatha, named after the queen 
Mary (the name Gabbatha: in the Gospel according to Stjohn, xix:13). We 
know the names of two of the Georgian translators, ‘the translating 
fathers’ who lived injerusalem at the time; they were David and Stephen. 
They translated Greek and Arabic books into Georgian. Towards the end 
of the ninth century, John the Physician, ofjerusalem, translated Georgian 
books into Armenian. A group of copyists of Georgian books were active 
in Mar Saba in the latter half of the tenth century as well. Many splendid 
illuminated manuscripts remained in these monasteries. De casts Dei also 
mentions Georgian monks on the Mount of Olives and in the Gethsemane 
church in around the year 808. Two central figures of the Georgian 
Church visited Palestine in the ninth century, the Saints Hilarion and 
Constantine. The former, who belonged to the Georgian nobility, visited 
Mount Tabor, Jerusalem, Bethlehem and the River Jordan, and after¬ 
wards settled down at the monastery of Mar Saba and remained there for 
seven years. Constantine, a wealthy and highly respected figure in his 
country, who had been governor of Upper Georgia during the reign of the 
empress Theodora and that of her son Michael III (‘the drunkard’, 842— 
867) visited Palestine in the first half of the ninth century, bringing with 
him substantial donations to its monasteries. He was seized by the 
Muslims and died of torture in Baghdad, in mid-century. Towards the 
end of the tenth century (according to one source, in 992) Prochore came 
to Palestine and joined the monastery of Mar Saba. He restored the church 
of the Cross near Jerusalem, in the Valley of the Cross, as ordered by ‘the 
holy man’ Euthymius, of Mount Athos in Greece, and with his assistance. 
The text of his thanksgiving to God on this accomplishment, from the 
year 1038, has been preserved; but his work of restoration of the church 
was then still unfinished, for when one of the saints of Georgia, Georgius 
Mtzamindeli, visited Palestine for a second time in 1056, coming from 
Antioch (his first visit took place in 1044), he found Prochore still busy 
with the restoration. During the same period, the monastery of St James 
(son of Zebedee) on Mount Zion was founded; king Bagrat, the curopalat 
of Georgia on behalf of the Byzantine emperor, is credited with its 
foundation. This monastery was sold to the Armenians some 400 years 
later. The (Georgian) abbot of the monastery of the Holy Cross in the 
Valley of the Cross also served as abbot of the monastery of the Calvary 


451 



THE CHRISTIANS 


and was the intermediary between the Georgian king and the patriarch of 
Jerusalem. According to another version. King Bagrat received half of the 
church of the Calvary from the Byzantine emperor, and appointed a 
Georgian bishop as its head. A Georgian monastic order was established at 
the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in 1049. The fact that the patriarch of 
Antioch, John III (993-1020) proffered the income from one hundred 
Georgian estates to the Church of Jerusalem is a further indication of 
Georgia’s close ties with Jerusalem. 20 

[681] The first offshoots of the rivalry between Rome and Constanti¬ 
nople over the souls of the Christians in Palestine during the period under 
discussion could already be seen in the mid-ninth century, in the days of 
Pope Martin I, as I have already noted. I have already discussed extensively 
the matter of the relations between the Frankish kings, especially Char¬ 
lemagne, and the caliph of Baghdad, which involved considerable activity 
on the part of the Latin Church’s institutions in Jerusalem. Catholic 
scholars of the end of the last and the beginning of this century, especially 
the French scholars, have somewhat over-stressed this matter, and as we 
have seen, developed a theory concerning Charlemagne’s genuine protec¬ 
torate of the holy places. Some were of the opinion that this situation 
continued even after his time. These ties between Rome and Jerusalem, 
which were essentially political, naturally had religious consequences, and 
in particular, one can point to the direct contacts that were apparently 
created as a result, between personalities of the Western Church and the 
Jerusalem patriarchs, such as Alcuin’s letter to George, patriarch ofjerusa- 
lem, in around 800. In 809, Thomas, patriarch ofjerusalem, wrote a letter 
of recommendation to Pope Leo IX, for two monks, Agamus and Rocul- 
phus, emissaries of the Pope and of Charlemagne. These two emissaries 
carried a letter concerning the serious dispute which had broken out on 
Easter of that year between the local Church and the Latins — the filioque 


20 Procopius, De aedifuiis, V, 9 (ed. Loeb, VII, 358). See Anastas’ treatise, in Alishan, AOL, 
2(1884), 395-399, and see: Couret, La Palestine, 184f, on the monastery of the Iberians, 
that according to him was ‘to the right’ ofjerusalem and the Tower of David (it should be, 
evidently: to the west) and still existed in the twelfth century; cf. on the matter of the 
monasteries: Macler, Congres jranpais de la Syrie, II, 153; Peradze, Georgica, 4-5(1937), 184. 
The translation centres: Peeters, Trefonds, 203, 206, 210. Benoit, RB, 59(1950), 545-550, 
tries to prove that the Gabbatha monastery stood in the vicinity of Herod’s palace. The 
‘translating fathers’ in Jerusalem: Peeters, ibid. , 210. John the Physician: ibid. , 212; De casis 
Dei, in Tobler et Molinier, I, 302; cf. Janin, EO, 16(1913), 33; Peradze, ibid, (above in this 
note); see especially: Zagarelli, ZDPV, 12(1889), 41-45. According to Peeters (above in 
this note), 207, the monastery of the Holy Cross was only founded in 1038; see further on 
this monastery: Tobler, Topographie, II, 727, 737. On the matter of the monastery of St 
James and the Church of the Calvary, see also Dowling, PEFQ, 1911, 185. (In view of 
what was said above on the churches in the Kidron Valley, it appears that the monastery of 
St James stood there, not on Mount Zion.) See also Janin, EO, 16(1913), 32-47, 213-218; 
Richard, Mel. Brunei, 424. 


452 



CHRISTIAN SECTS [SECS. 676-682] 


dispute — over the origin of the Holy Ghost. This was an argument of 
theological principle, which focused on the formula which says that the 
Holy Ghost, the third factor in the Holy Trinity, derives from both the 
Father and the Son; hence the term filioque. This principle was first 
formulated at the Church Council in Saragossa, Spain, in 380. For the 
following generations, this formula was repeatedly expressed, with slight 
variations, by several ecclesiastic figures in the West, and also at the first 
Church Council in Toledo, in 400, and again some generations later by the 
fourth Council there, in 633. This formula was not accepted by the heads 
of the Church in Constantinople, however. Unlike the Church in Spain, 
the Popes did not hasten to identify with it, in order not to cause a further 
rift within the Church. In 796, this formula was officially confirmed at the 
Council called by Paulinus, patriarch of Aquilaea (today the region of 
Friuli, near Venice). It seems that due to the considerable influence exer¬ 
cised by the Latins over the Muslim authorities injerusalem as a result of 
Charlemagne’s policies, the Latins injerusalem dared to flaunt their sup¬ 
port of the filioque. Two monks from the Mount of Olives, Egilbald (or 
Egilbard) and Felix, set off for Europe in 807 and spent some time at the 
court of Charlemagne, who was an enthusiastic supporter of the filioque. 
When they returned to Jerusalem, they introduced this supplement to the 
credo (the symbolum), thereby causing much anger among the monks of 
Mar Saba. One of them in particular, John, accused the Latins of heresy. 
Much rage was aroused, particularly against a group of Latin monks who 
prayed on Christmas eve near the Cave of the Nativity in Bethlehem. A 
fight broke out and a public quarrel ensued, with the crowd openly 
expressing its anger with the Latins. The monk Leo then wrote to Pope 
Leo III, on behalf of all the Latin monks on the Mount of Olives, and 
described the attacks on them. Six monks signed the letter. The Pope 
passed on the letter to Charlemagne, attaching also the aforementioned 
letter from Thomas, patriarch ofjerusalem. The emperor called a Council 
of the Church in Aachen, in November 809, where the matter of the 
filioque was widely discussed and the doctrine on which it was based 
confirmed. In January 810, the Pope expressed his approval of the con¬ 
clusions reached at Aachen; nevertheless he avoided validating the in¬ 
clusion of the filioque formula in the symbolum when it is being intoned 
(generally sung) during the ceremonies of the Church. 21 

[682] The influence of Charlemagne’s enterprises was felt for gener- 

21 On Latin influence in Palestine after Charlemagne, see: Riant, AOL , 1(1881), 13, n. 16, 
with lists of sources, and some quotations. Alcuin’s letter, see ibid., 29, and also on 
Thomas’ letter. On the filioque see: the article by this name (by A. Palmieri) in DTC, V, 
2309—2315; see also in the chronicle of Eginhard (Enhardus) of Fulda, 354, and in that of 
Ado, 320, on the Council of Aachen; cf. Hefele, Conciliengesch Ill, 749f; Berliere, Revue 
benedictine, 5(1888), 442ff; Vailhe, ROC , 6(1901), 322f; Pargoire, Veglise , 289. 


453 



THE CHRISTIANS 


ations in the comparative strengthening of the Latins injerusalem, and we 
have an indication of this in Bernard the Monk’s descriptions of his travels 
in 867, mentioned above. Twelve years later, we have evidence of the 
connections between Rome and Jerusalem in a letter from Pope John VIII 
to Elias III, the patriarch of Jerusalem, written in May 879. The Pope 
confirms the arrival of the patriarch’s emissaries, Theodosius, David and 
Saba. They were obliged to wait for some time because the Pope had been 
travelling in the country of the Franks. He apologises for the modesty of 
the gifts he is sending with the emissaries, for out of‘fear of the Muslims’, 
it is impossible to send things of greater value. Musset, in his book on the 
history of Christianity in the East, saw in these connections un touchant 
temoignage de I’union Jratemelle qui existait alors entre Rome etJerusalem. Two 
years later, in 881, Theodosius’ successor, the patriarch Elias III, writes to 
the kings, the bishops, abbots and monks, and the believers in the country 
of the Franks, noting the existence of the Latin monks injerusalem. The 
letter is borne by emissaries of the patriarch, the monks Rainard and 
Gispert, whose mission is to collect money to free thejerusalem Church of 
the debts incurred during the restoration of so many of its churches. 

Our attention is again drawn to the relationship between Rome and 
Jerusalem in around the year 1000, by a letter fromjerusalem requesting 
aid from Pope Sylvester II. (Sylvester II is Gerbert, one of the greatest 
Western scholars of his time; he was involved in educational endeavours, 
but also in politics and the intrigues of the period, beginning when he was 
archbishop of Rheims and afterwards in Ravenna. He held the office of 
pope from 2 April 999 until 12 May 1003, and made a pilgrimage to 
Palestine.) These are the major facts at our disposal concerning the insti¬ 
tutions of the Latins and their status injerusalem. Apart from these, the 
remaining information is mostly about pilgrimages from western Europe, 
that is, of members of the Latin Church. Here and there, the institutions of 
the Latins are also mentioned in connection with the persecution of 
Christians, and with the dedication of property and various kinds of aid 
for Jerusalem initiated by the Latins in Europe. 22 


The patriarchs and other personalities in the Church of Jerusalem 

[683] Information on the patriarchs of Jerusalem in this period derives 
from various sources. First are the sources of the Greek Church ofjerusa- 

22 John’s letter: Mansi, XVII, 116; cf. Riant, AOL, 1(1881), 29. John’s letter is also printed in 
MPL 126, 829f, where the correct year is cited, and not in Mansi-872 (forjohnwas not yet 
pope in May 872); the editor of the letter assumed, mistakenly, through misunderstanding 
the text of the letter ( Monachi vestri Theodosius videlicet, David et Saba venientes Romam), that 
Theodosius was the name of the patriarch and entitled the letter accordingly; but the 
patriarch in 879 was Elias III (see below); see also: Musset, Histoire, 256f. The letter of Elias 


454 



PATRIARCHS AND OTHER PERSONALITIES [SECS. 683-699] 

lem itself. In addition to these, there are the chronicles, particularly those 
of SaTd ibn Bitriq and Yahya ibn SaTd, and letters that were preserved in 
compilations of the Catholic Church. We possess several lists of the 
Jerusalem patriarchs which contradict one another at times. These lists are 
not complete, as a rule, and we have to determine the times of these 
patriarchs’ lives according to the events in which they were involved. In 
general, I must stress that many of the dates are estimates; with the 
discovery of additional sources, they may have to be amended. 

The Jerusalem patriarchs, 634—1099 

1. Sophronius I, 634—638 

2. Anastasius, 691-706 

3. John V, 706-735 

4. Theodore I, 745-770 

5. Elias II, 770-797 

6. George, 797-807 

7. Thomas I, 807-820 

8. Basil, 820-838 

9. John VI, 838-842 

10. Sergius I, 842-855 

11. Solomon, 855-860 

12. Theodosius, 860-878 

13. Elias III, ibn Mansur, 878-907 

14. Sergius II, 908-911 

15. Leo I, 912-929 

16. Athanasius I, 929-937 

17. Christodulus I, 937-950 

18. Agathon, 950-964 

19. John VII, 964-966 

20. Christodulus II, 966-968 

21. Thomas II, 969-978 

22. Joseph II, 978-983 

23. Agapius, 983-984 

24. Orestes, 984-1005 

25. Theophilus I, 1012-1020 

26. Nicephorus I, 1020-1036 

27. Ioannicos, 1036-1058 

28. Menas, 1058 (eight months) 

29. Sophronius II, 1059-1070 

30. Mark II, 1070-1084 

31. Simeon II, 1084-1096 

32. Euthymius, 1096-15 July 1099. 23 

and his emissaries: RHGF, IX, 294f; cf. Berliere, Revue benedictine, 5(1888), 445; Brehier, 
L’eglise , 29; Riant, AOL, 1(1881), 26f. The letter to Pope Sylvester, see: Guarmani, 
Gl'Italiani , 10: see the article on Pope Sylvester: E. Amann, in DTC, XIV, 2075-2083. 

23 Sa‘id ibn Bitriq and Yahya ibn Sa'id include data on the Jerusalem patriarchs in the text of 
their chronicles, in chronological order, and they are the oldest sources on this subject. 
Apart from this, lists of patriarchs are to be found in the collection of the archbishop 
of Athens, Chrisostomos Papadopoulos (= A. Kerameos), Analekta Ierosolymitikes 


455 



THE CHRISTIANS 


[684] The patriarchal seat was vacant for a period of two generations, as 
we have already seen, following the death of Sophronius, patriarch of 
Jerusalem at the time of the Muslim conquest. Some are of the opinion that 
Theodore, bishop of Heshbon, whom I have mentioned above, served in 
his stead during that period. His representative, Andreas of Crete, who 
was a monk in one of Jerusalem’s monasteries, participated in the sixth 
Church Council in Constantinople, 680-681 (the Trullanum Council). 
According to Dositheos Notara, Theodore was not actually a patriarch; 
Theophanes calls him proedros, president, and perhaps he meant to say 
bishop, rather than patriarch. According to a source written in 1660, the 
Muslims banished Theodore in 680 to a location 2,000 miles from Jerusa¬ 
lem. Another deputy for Theodore is mentioned, an old monk named 
George, who was also present at the Council in Constantinople. In fact, 
most of the sources agree that it is Anastasius who was the first real 
patriarch after Sophronius, and it is interesting that he is not mentioned in 
the rhyming obituary lists. 24 

[685] John (706-735), the next patriarch, was according to Theophanes 
an opponent of the emperor Leo the Isaurian (717-741), who introduced 
the reform of breaking the images. According to Theophanes, he objected 
to the reform ‘together with all the bishops of the East’. He adds that John 
already became patriarch in 704. There are differing opinions as to the 


Stakhyologias, edited at the end of the nineteenth century (1st edition: St Petersburg 
1891-1898); in the rhymed ecclesiastic obituary lists ( diptykha ), in vol. I, 125; in the essay 
on the history of the patriarchs ofjerusalem written by Maximos Simaios, ibid.. Ill, Iff; in 
the annals of the Jerusalem saints written by the monk Procopius of Nazianzos (which is 
Diocaesarea in Cappadocia) according to Sa'Id ibn Bitriq and evidently (in the continu¬ 
ation) also to Yahya ibn Sa‘id (with many inaccuracies), ibid., Ill, 123; in the history of the 
Jerusalem patriarchs written by Dositheos Notara in 1705, based mainly on sources 
collected by the metropolitan of Gaza, Paisios Ligarides (who died in 1678) - see ibid., I, 
231-307, and see the list ibid., 237ff (see on the author: DTC, IV, 1788-1800); see the list 
compiled by Papadopoulos himself in the index to his book: Historia tes ekklesias Hiero- 
solymon (1910), 796. A survey of the Jerusalem patriarchs was also written by Michel Le 
Quien in Oriens Christianus, first printed in Paris in 1740; see vol. Ill, 280-500. The 
chronology of my list is mainly based on that of the aforementioned Papadopoulos, with 
certain deviations where it was justified. It is also worth noting the lists of Dowling, 
PEFQ, 1913, 171ff (who based his data on SaTd ibn Bitriq and Yahya ibn Sa‘id), and of 
Grumel, Chronologie, 451f (who followed in the wake of the aforementioned, taking very 
much into consideration some of the Greek sources). The former diverges from my list 
with regard to Sergius I (he has: 842-844), and to the patriarchs of the eleventh century, 
beginning with Nicephorus. The other, diverges more frequently, evidently due to his 
limited use of the two above-mentioned Christian-Arabic sources. 

24 Andreas: see the article by E. Marin, in DTC, I, 1182f. Dositheos, in Papadopoulos- 
Kerameos, Analekta, I, 239f. The banishment of Theodore: ibid., II, 299. Cf. Pargoire, 
L’eglise, 155. George, see: Procopius in Papadopoulos-Kerameos, Analekta III, 128. On 
Anastasius, see the diptykha, ibid., I, 125. According to Procopius, ibid., 128, Anastasius 
held office for twenty-five years; but see Papadopoulos-Kerameos, Historia, 796; and 
Dositheos in Papadopoulos-Kerameos, Analekta, I, 239, 


456 



PATRIARCHS AND OTHER PERSONALITIES [SECS. 683-699) 


duration of his office as well. Dositheos claims that he was patriarch only 
for four years. 25 

[686] The next patriarch in our list is Theodore (745-770); it seems that 
there was an interval of ten years between the two (735-745) and it is 
difficult to know precisely what occurred. Possibly, internal warfare and 
persecution prevented the Christians from choosing a patriarch. Sa‘Id ibn 
Bitrlq mentions here another patriarch, Elias, who is not recorded any¬ 
where else. According to him, Elias became patriarch in the year AH 17 of 
Hisham, that is AD 740, and served in this office for thirty-four years, 
until his death, that is until 774. But this information is contrary to all 
other Christian sources, according to which there was a patriarch by the 
name of Elias (the second) only from 770. In his account of the year 753, 
Theophanes mentions the Jerusalem patriarch, that is Theodore, sitting 
idly by (together with Rome, Alexandria and Antioch), and displaying no 
opposition to the decision against icon-worship made by the Council of 
338 bishops who convened at the palace of Hiereia. Theophanes adds that 
in the twenty-third year of Constantine (the fifth, namely Copronymus, 
741-775), that is in AD 764, Theodore, patriarch ofjerusalem, proclaimed 
a ban on the iconoclast Cosmas, bishop of Epiphania (which is Hama, 
some 30 kilometres north of Hims), together with Theodore, patriarch of 
Antioch, and Cosmas, patriarch of Alexandria, and all the other bishops. 
This was done on the feast of Pentecost, after the reading of the Gospels. In 
a biography of Stephen the Young (written in 808), there is mention of a 
joint appeal to the emperor Constantine on the part of the patriarchs of 
Antioch, Jerusalem and Alexandria. According to Procopius, Theodore 
was patriarch for only nineteen years, and he was preceded by George II 
for four years. Dositheos, however, quotes a source which says that 
Theodore became patriarch in 749. 26 

[687] Elias II (770-797) sent representatives to the seventh Church 


25 See Theophanes (De Boor), 375, 382, and the contradictory data. The veracious ones are 
evidently those on p, 382: the first year of the reign of emperor Philippicus Bardanes 
(711-713) is the same here as John’s seventh year, that is, according to him he became 
patriarch in 704. On his opposition to the iconoclasts, see ibid., 408; see Dositheos in 
Papadopoulos-Kerameos, Analekta, I, 241; see also: Procopius, ibid.. Ill, 128; Maximos 
Simaios, ibid. , III, Iff; Papadopoulos-Kerameos, Historia, 278. The year of John’s death, 
AD 735, see: Le Quien in MPG 95, 306; during the period of the patriarchs of the eighth 
century - John V and his successors — see Amann, in DTC, VIII, 1000, Jerusalem 
undergoes a process of increasing independence towards Constantinople, especially felt in 
the years of struggle against the iconoclasts, for both Rome and Jerusalem opposed the 
image-breakers. 

26 Sa'Id ibn Bitriq, II, 46; the matter of Hiereia: Theophanes, 427f; cf. Breyer, 70; the matter 
of Epiphania: Theophanes, 434, cf. Breyer, 79, see Dussaud, Topographie, 181, and map 
XIV, after p. 472; the life of Stephen, see MPG 100, 111 7f. Procopius, in Papadopoulos- 
Kerameos, Analekta, III, 128; Dositheos, ibid., I, 241; Le Quien, see the previous note; cf. 
Musset, Histoire, 255; Brehier, L’eglise, 22f. 


457 



THE CHRISTIANS 


Council, in Nicaea, in 787 (in which Peter, the abbot of the monastery of 
Mar Saba also participated; he was accredited by Pope Hadrian, according 
to one source). Apparently it was this Elias who wrote the letter to 
Tarasius, patriarch of Constantinople, ‘the reply of the Patriarchates in the 
East’, in 787, complaining bitterly of the Christians’ plight: 

After the most holy letters from Your Holiness were read out to us [in public]... 
we, the wretched, the last of those dwelling in the wilderness, were taken by 
trembling, but also by joy. Trembling, on the one hand, for fear of those creatures 
who have been chosen to enslave us for our sins, the wicked all around us, as is 
written: the ungodly walk on every side [Ps., xii:9]. Every day, in fact, they invent 
pretexts to kill and destroy us. Joy, on the other hand, for the truth of our genuine 
faith glows from those letters like sunshine, and because of such rich interpretation 
of the teachings of the apostles and the fathers [in your letters]. Indeed your words 
reminded us of the prophet Zechariah [who is Zechariah, father of John the 
Baptist], who created the saying, also read aloud by us: whereby the day-spring 
from on high hath visited us [Luke, i:78] to give light, by God’s mercy, to them 
that sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, among Arabs who have no 
reverence of the Lord. 27 

[688] Of George (797-807) Sa‘Id ibn Bitrlq tells us that he became 
patriarch in the twentieth year of the reign of Caliph al-Mansur (that is, 
773) and remained in office for thirty-six years, until his death, that is, 
according to him, until 809. He was the patriarch at the time of Char¬ 
lemagne’s reign and the relationship between the Frankish kingdom and 
the caliph of Baghdad. He is mentioned in sources which speak of the ties 

27 See the chronicle of the monk Georgios Hamartolos (ed. De Boor), 769 (cf. MPG 110, 
961). Petrides, EO, 4(1900-1901), 226, quotes a story about Elias, found in AA SS, July, 
III, 537, 549-554 (he mistakenly has 522-527), according to which a certain Theodosius 
dislodged Elias from his office, with the help of his brother and a group of friends, and he 
was exiled and died in Persia (and according to another version, was brought back from 
exile to his post). The same source also mentions Basil, a monk of the Spoudaioi in the 
Church of the Resurrection, who became abbot of the monastery in Jericho and after¬ 
wards bishop of Tiberias. However, the story of the ousting of Elias belongs to the 
pre-Islamic period. See Theophanes, 107, where the monk Theodosius, who wanted to be 
patriarch, is mentioned; thus the story in AA SS has no historical validity (it is cited in the 
biographical framework of the monk Stephen the miracle-worker of Mar Saba). The same 
mistake is made by Pargoire, L’eglise, 277, who evidently did not examine the sources and 
attributes this information to Theophanes; also following in his wake (evidently) are 
Musset, Histoire, 255; and Constantelos, Byzantion, 42(1972), 346. As to the represen¬ 
tation at the Council of Nicaea (789), the information is contradictory; according to 
Theophanes, Jerusalem was not represented at all; while other sources say that Thomas 
(who afterwards became patriarch) was Elias’ representative at that Council. See Theo¬ 
phanes, 461; cf. Dobschutz, BZ, 18(1909), 85f. An outstanding Jerusalem personality at 
the Council was John, who had been formerly synkellos (see below on this office) of the 
Jerusalem patriarch, and author of a tract against the iconoclasts. It was said that at the 
Council he represented the three patriarchs of the East; see Kurtz, BZ, 11(1902), 542; see 
the article on him (by L. Petit) in DTC, VIII, 766 (No. 47). See the letter in Mansi, XII, 
1127; 300 years later, Abiathar, Gaon of Palestine, would use the same passage from the 
Psalms in order to say that he is surrounded by the wicked, see: 559 , a, line 8. Cf. also: 
Procopius in Papadopoulos-Kerameos, Analekta, III, 129. 


458 



PATRIARCHS AND OTHER PERSONALITIES [SECS. 683-699] 

between Charlemagne and Jerusalem. A letter ascribed to Alcuin written 
to this George has been preserved, containing mainly courtesies, and the 
request to pray for him and those with him, just as he prays for the 
patriarch and his people. 28 

[689] Thomas I (807-820) was the patriarch in whose lifetime the 
aforementioned dispute over the filioque took place in Palestine. At almost 
the same time, another schism began to take shape, connected with 
icon-worship. We have seen that in this dispute, which lasted for many 
generations (717-867), the Jerusalem patriarchs sided with the icon-wor¬ 
shippers, that is, with the traditional conservative trend, in opposition to 
the iconoclasts. This derived, not a little, from the fact that it was the 
monks who were the spinal cord of the official Church of Palestine, and 
they persisted in their fanatical support of the worship of icons and crosses. 
The specific affair I am speaking of here is that of the Graptoi brothers, that 
is, ‘the marked’. This refers to two Jerusalemites, whose father Jonas, 
became a monk at the Mar Saba monastery. The two brothers, Theodore 
and Theophanes, were the pupils of Michael, the synkellos of the patriarch 
Thomas. ( Synkellos , literally ‘cell-mate’, which shows something of the 
monasterial background of the holders of the ecclesiastic offices; the 
synkellos was the permanent escort of the patriarch, the chief official of his 
palace.) Michael was a close friend of Theodore, head of the monastery of 
the Studites, or Spoudaioi, near the Holy Sepulchre. When Theodore 
asked the Jerusalem patriarch to send people to help him in his struggle, 
these two brothers were sent to him, for they had in fact been engaged in 
spreading propaganda for iconolatry. They were finally arrested on em¬ 
peror Theophilus’ orders, evidently in around 830 (the patriarch ofjerusa- 
lem being Basil at the time). They were severely tortured and at the 
emperor’s request, their faces were engraved with humiliating rhymes 
which he himself had devised; hence their reputation and nickname - the 
Graptoi. According to Sa‘Id ibn Bitrlq, Thomas served from 809 until 819. 
He credits Thomas with the restoration of the dome of the Holy Se¬ 
pulchre, during the reign of Caliph al-Ma’mun. He also tells us Thomas’ 
nickname, which was Tamriq. 29 

28 Sa'id ibn Bitrlq, II, 49. Alcuin’s letter: MPL 100, 359; Procopius (see the previous note) 
ignores George and places Thomas after Elias; Maximos Simaios, in Papadopoulos- 
Kerameos, Analekta , III, 4, gives him thirty-seven years on the patriarchal throne; cf. 
Musset, Histoire, 255. 

29 On the Graptoi, see: Zonaras (Bonn), III, 365f; Cedrenus (Bonn), II, 114ff; cf. Ehrhardt, 
Romische Quartalschrifi , 7(1893), 40, 50f; VailheEO, 2(1898/9), 41 f; 3(1899-1900), 27; idem, 
ROC, 6(1901), 319f; Dobschiitz, BZ, 18(1909), 84; Musset, Histoire, 255. On the office of 
synkellos see: Pargoire, L’eglise, 62; on p. 64 he mentions another important ecclesiastic 
office that existed in Jerusalem, ‘the guardian of the cross’ (the staurophylakos), who was in 
charge of guarding the holy cross; SaTd ibn Bitrlq, II, 54f (there is confirmation here of the 
data on the time Thomas held office, but according to him, he served for only ten years, 


459 



THE CHRISTIANS 


[690] Basil (820-838) was patriarch in 845, according to Sa'id ibn Bitriq, 
and was the pupil of his predecessor, Thomas. It was during his time that 
the iconoclast emperor Theophilus organised the Church Council, specifi¬ 
cally in 835/6, and that the aforementioned episode of the Graptoi 
occurred. In 836, Basil convened a Council injerusalem, with the partici¬ 
pation of Christopher, patriarch of Alexandria and Ayyub, the patriarch 
of Antioch, together with a number of bishops, who all protested against 
the iconoclastic policy of the emperor. That Council also produced an 
epistle signed by its participants in favour of iconolatry. 30 

[691] John VI (838-842) became patriarch, according to Sa‘Id ibn Bitriq, 
in the seventh year of al-Mu‘tasim’s rule, and this is more or less in 
accordance with the date noted here. He also adds that very disturbing 
rumours were heard about him and that he finally fled from the people of 
his Church and abandoned his office. 31 

[692] Sergius I (842-855) became patriarch of Jerusalem in the second 
year of al-Wathiq, according to Sa‘ld ibn Bitriq, and this is as listed here. 
He was also called Ibn Mansur, as he was one of the descendants of the 
Mansur who helped the Muslims capture Damascus. Sa‘id ibn Bitriq says 
that he remained in office until he died, after serving for sixteen years. 32 

[693] Solomon (855-860) was called Salmun ibn Zarqun by Sa‘Id ibn 
Bitriq. He took office in the tenth year of al-Mutawakkil, and remained 
there until his death five years later. 33 

[694] Theodosius, or Theodore (860-878), was also called al-Miqlati 
(evidently: ‘the bereaved’), according to Sa‘Id ibn Bitriq, who says that he 
rose to the patriarchal seat in the first year of al-Musta‘In (that is, a year or 
two after the date noted here). He is mentioned in connection with the 
eighth Church Council in Constantinople, in 869, which was directed 
against the patriarch of Constantinople, Photius. The legates of Theodo¬ 
sius, Elias, who was then a priest and synkellos, and Thomas, the metro- 

until the seventh year of al-Ma’mun, that is 819, and therefore he should have started his 
service in office in 809. 

30 Sa'id ibn Bitriq, II, 57. On the Council of Theophilus there is no further information; see 
on this: Dositheos, in Papadopoulos-Kerameos, Analekta, I, 241; see more on Basil: 
Procopius, ibid. , III, 129; Maximos Simaios, ibid. , III, 4. See the epistle of the participants 
in the Jerusalem Council (wrongly ascribed to John of Damascus) in MPG 95, 346-385; see 
on the Council: Constantinus Porphyrogenitus, Narratio de imagine Edessena, MPG 113, 
442; and cf. R. Janin in DHGE, VI, 1411 (where there is an error in the reference to the 
aforementioned Constantine Porphyrogenitus: 412 instead of 442); see also: Musset, 
Histoire , 256. 

31 See Sa'id ibn Bitriq, II, 60; cf. Procopius (as in the previous note); Maximos Simaios (as in 
the previous note): he fled from the Arabs, to Eutychius, patriarch of Alexandria. In the 
diptykha (Papadopoulos-Kerameos, Analekta , I, 125) he is not mentioned. 

32 See Sa'id ibn Bitriq, II, 61f; and see the Greek sources noted in the previous note. 

33 Sa'id ibn Bitriq, II, 64. See the Greek sources in the previous notes. He was also called 
Salmonas. 


460 



PATRIARCHS AND OTHER PERSONALITIES [SECS. 683-699) 

politan of Tyre, participated in the Council. They were given permission 
to leave the country by the hamera, that is, the amir, apparently meaning 
the caliph. A letter from Theodosius to the patriarch of Constantinople, 
Ignatius, has been preserved, in which he at first apologises for the 
infrequency of his letters; the reason being that the Christians in Jerusalem 
do not wish to arouse the suspicions of the authorities. He praises the good 
will of the Muslim rulers, who permit the Christians to build their 
churches and carry on their religious customs, treating them fairly and 
justly and avoiding any offence or iniquity. The letter, he explains, is 
being written at the behest of the amer, that is the amir. He asks Ignatius to 
influence the emperor to show greater readiness to concede to the 
Muslims, which would, as a result, redound to the benefit of the Chris¬ 
tians living under their rule. He also mentions that his emissaries are 
bearing gifts fromjerusalem. Theodosius-Theodore is also mentioned by 
the monk Bernard, who visited Jerusalem at the time he was serving as 
patriarch there. As I have already noted, Theodosius intervened in the 
dispute around the patriarch Photius. Towards the end of his life he also 
sent a letter to Photius with Elias, his emissary, blaming the Council of 
869; this he did when Photius returned to the patriarchal throne in Con¬ 
stantinople after Ignatius was deposed, in 878. 34 

[695] Elias III ibn Mansur served from 878 to 907. The date of his death 
is mentioned in a manuscript kept in the Monastery of St Catherine in 
Sinai (a Georgian calendar) as 4 October 906, but this date is questionable. 
According to Sa‘Id ibn Bitriq, he became patriarch in the tenth year of 
al-Mu‘tamid, that is, in AD 878, and stayed in office until his death 
twenty-nine years later. It is accepted that he died in 907. He was a 
descendant of the Damascene Mansur, of the same family that collab¬ 
orated with the Muslims mentioned above, that is, he was the brother of 
the patriarch Sergius. I have already referred to the letter Popejohn VIII 
wrote to him in 879, and Elias’ letter to the notables of the Franks, in 881. 
In around 880, he was the host of Elia da Castrogiovanni of Sicily, who had 
come on a pilgrimage tojerusalem and stayed there for three years. Elias, 
the patriarch, received him courteously, unlike the welcome he received in 
Alexandria prior to this visit. According to Sa‘id ibn Bitriq, it was Elias 
who annointed Christodulus of Aleppo, patriarch of Alexandria, ‘on the 


34 Sa'Id ibn Bitriq, II, 66. The Council and the letter to Ignatius: Mansi, XVI, 25ff, 314; cf. 
Riant, AOL, 1(1881), 13, n. 16, who takes seriously the flattery paid the rulers for their 
decent attitude while ignoring the fact that exactly the contrary is implied in the letter; see 
that same naive seriousness in: Brehier, L’eglise, 31; see further: Dositheos, inPapadopou- 
los-Kerameos, Analekta, 1, 242; see Bernard the monk in Tobler et Molinier, I, 315; see 
also the Greek sources mentioned in the previous notes. The letter to Photius, see: 
Papadopoulos-Kerameos, Historia , 336f; cf. Musset, Histoire, 256, n. 3. 



THE CHRISTIANS 


great sabbath, 4 NIsan [April], that is, 19 Jumada II, in the fifth year of 
al-Muktafi’, that is AD 906 (at the height of al-Khalanji’s rebellion). 35 

[696] Sergius II (908-911) is mentioned in the writings of Sa'id ibn 
Bitriq, who states that Jurjus (perhaps an error of the copyist) ibn Di‘jan 
(perhaps Diogenes), became patriarch in the sixth year of al-Muktafi, that 
is, in AD 907, which corresponds roughly to what is said in the Greek 
sources. According to him, he held office for four years and eight months, 
that is, until 910. After him, in the third year of al-Muqtadir, that is in the 
same year, 910, he says that Leo I was crowned. One should bear in mind 
that the last days of Elias and the years in which his successors Sergius, Leo 
and Athanasius held office, fell at the time of the return of Baghdadian rule 
in Palestine, between the rules of the Tulunids and the Ikhshldids. As to 
Athanasius (929-937), he is only mentioned in the Greek sources. In his 
day, his synkellos John, who lived in the monastery (evidently of the 
Spoudaioi) near the Church of the Resurrection, was the better known of 
the two. He was engaged in translating from Arabic into Greek; among 
other things, he translated in 934 an epistle of Theodore Abu Qurra. 36 

[697] Christodulus ibn Bahrain (937-950) was patriarch, according to 
Y ahya ibn Sa‘Id, for a period of fourteen years. He died in the fifth year of 
al-Muri‘, that is, in 950, and took office in 936 or 937. In some instances, he 
is called Christodoros or Christophoros. He was said to originate from 
Ascalon. The period of his patriarchate was one of dreadful persecution of 
the Christians, as we shall see, and he was eventually forced to flee from 
Jerusalem. He died in Ramla and was buried there. A letter written in the 
year 947 by an official of the Byzantine court, Nicetas, to emperor Con¬ 
stantine VII (Porphyrogenitos) has been preserved; in it he describes the 
events connected with the Paschal fire during his stay in Jerusalem; and 
mentions Christodulus’ presence there. Agathon succeeded Christodulus 
(950-964), and was followed in turn byjohn VII (964—966), whose name 


35 On the date of his death, see: R. Janin in DHGE , XV, 191; SaTd ibn Bitriq, II, 56, 69; see 
also Dositheos (see previous note), 242. Elia of Sicily: Amari, Storta 2 , 1, 657; see the Greek 
sources mentioned in the previous notes. On the annointing of Christodulus in Alex¬ 
andria, see SaTd ibn Bitriq, II, 75; it is unlikely that SaTd was mistaken about the 
personality of the Jerusalem patriarch, for he was so close to these times; cf. Gutschmid, 
Kleitie Schrijien, II, 486: Christodulus was SaTd ibn Bitriq's predecessor in the office of the 
patriarch of Alexandria. However, 19 Jumada II fell in 906 (that is: 293 of the hijra) on 17 
April. Nearer to these dates is the year after that, 907, when 19Jumada fell on 6 April; and 
in that year 4 April actually fell on a Saturday. Thus it is possible that the date recorded in 
that manuscript in the Sinai is not correct and that Elias died then in 907 and not 906. 

34 SaTd ibn Bitriq, II, 75, 79; see the Greek sources mentioned in the previous notes. See on 
John the Synkellos: Bios et al., Izvestiya (Constantinople), 11:227, 260, 1906, with two of 
his biographies. See also: Peeters, Trefonds, 186; according to Procopius (Papadopoulos- 
Kerameos, Analekta, III, 129), Athanasius remained in office only two years and left it 
because of his illness, and in his stead came Nicholas, who was patriarch for a period of 


462 



PATRIARCHS AND OTHER PERSONALITIES [SECS. 683-699] 

was Yuhanna ibnjaml 1 , according to Yahya ibn Sa'Id, and we have already 
seen above that he was killed during the persecution of the Christians in 
966. 37 

[698] Christodulus II (966-968) was a man of Caesarea. His Arabic name 
was Habib, and his nickname was Abu Sahl; his other Greek name was 
Agapios. He died in Egypt on Wednesday, 28 Safar AH 358 (23 December 
AD 968), after serving for two and a half years. He was buried in Alex¬ 
andria, in the church of St Theodore. His successor was Thomas II 
(969-978), patriarch during the early days of the Fatimid wars in Palestine. 
It was said that he was considerably aided by ajacobite Christian official 
by the name of ‘All b. Sawwar, nicknamed Ibn al-Hammar, a man who 
was one of Alptakln’s retainers and who reached Iraq with him and was 
very helpful to the Christians when Alptakln ruled Palestine. With Alpta- 
kin’s downfall, this Christian official was killed. Thomas’ successor was 
Joseph II (978-983), who became patriarch in the fifth year of al-‘Az!z - 
according to Yahya-that is, in 979. He was a physician, or iatrosophistes (in 
Procopius: iatrophilosophos, undoubtedly a distortion). He remained in 
office for three years and eight months. He died in Egypt and was also 
buried in the Church of St Theodore, near Christodulus’ tomb. The next 
patriarch, Agapius (983-984) is only mentioned in Greek sources. 38 

[699] Orestes, serving from 984 to 1005, is also known in Greek sources 
as Ariston. According to Yahya ibn Sa‘Id, he was crowned in Ramadan 
AH 375 (January/February AD 986). He was an uncle of Caliph al-‘Az!z’ 
daughter on her mother’s side (in other words, the caliph’s wife’s brother). 
He served for twenty years, according to Yahya, and we have seen above 
that he was sent as an emissary of the caliph to Constantinople, where he 
died. His brother Arsenius was the patriarch of Alexandria. During his 
patriarchate, his synkellos, Sadaqa b. Bishr became known for his role in 
the restoration of the church of the Resurrection. In 995, Orestes sent 
emissaries to Pope John XV, to clarify ecclesiastic ritual and customs. We 
have already encountered his successor, Theophilus (1012-1020) in the 
discussion on the Arab rebellions of the same period, and have seen that he 
was appointed on behalf of the Banu Jarrah. He died in Ramadan AH 410 
(January AD 1020). Nicephorus (1020-1036) was appointed in his stead. 
He was a carpenter by trade, ‘a descendant of the Byzantine slaves’ and had 
worked as a carpenter in the palace of Caliph al-Hakim, who responded to 

fifteen years, that is, one assumes, from 931 to 946; but this contradicts the data in the other 
sources, especially Yaljya ibn SaTd, as we shall see below. According to Maximos Simaois 
(ibid.. Ill, 4), Nicholas is none other than Agathon, who was patriarch from 950 onward. 

37 Yahya ibn SaTd (PO), 71, 94f; see the Greek sources noted above. Nicetas’ letter, see: 
Riant, AOL, 1(1881), 377-382 (text, and French translation), cf. Canard, Byzantion, 
35(1965), 30ff. 

38 Yahya ibn SaTd (PO), 104, 120, 200; and see the Greek sources noted above. 


463 



THE CHRISTIANS 


his request and appointed him patriarch of Jerusalem. He took office on 
Sunday, 10 Tammuz AH 411, that is July AD 1020. Yahya adds that 
Nicephorus asked the caliph for ‘a sijill (an official order) of defence, 
protection and guardianship of the churches left in Jerusalem and the 
monasteries outside the city, the church of St George in Lydda, and 
consent to restore their foundations to them’. And indeed, the caliph gave 
him the sijill, and Yahya quotes its version, which says it was written in 
Jumada II AH 411, that is November/December AD 1020. With regard to 
the following patriarchs — Ioannicos (1036-1058), Menas (1058), Sophro- 
nius II (1058-1070), Mark II (1070-1084), Simeon II (1084-1096) and 
Euthymius (1096-1099), we are almost entirely dependent on compara¬ 
tively late Greek Church sources. Sophronius II is mentioned by Ingulph, 
the English abbot, who reports that he visited him and praises his virtues, 
piety and honesty. The Latin sources describe Simeon II as the patriarch of 
Jerusalem who held office until close to the Crusaders’ conquest, and then 
escaped fromjerusalem to Cyprus during the Crusaders’ advance, where 
he later died. The Greek sources, on the other hand, speak of Euthymius. 
According to Maximos Simaios, he became patriarch in the 17th year of 
Alexius Comnenus, that is, in AD 1096, and remained on the patriarchal 
throne for thirteen years, that is, until 1109. 39 


Ritual and customs 

[700] This is not the place for a detailed analysis of the Christian ritual 
practices, prayers, holidays, customs and so forth. Here I shall merely try 
to assemble the information dealing with these matters contained in the 
sources of the period, some of which are Arab sources. I have already 
mentioned the custom peculiar to the Christians of the East, the use of the 
naqiis, or pieces of wood, instead of a bell. To the Karaite Daniel al-Qumisi 

39 Yahya ibn Sa‘Id (PO), 105, 207, 253. Arsenius, who evidently replaced his brother Orestes 
in his absence, is ascribed with having written the encyclical letter to the believers in the 
East and the West, in which he recommends (Saint) Simeon the Armenian, see Riant, 
AOL, 1(1881), 29 and more references there, in n. 17. From the same period, a letter is 
quoted, ascribed to the Jerusalem Church, written to the Latin Church and copied by Pope 
Sylvester II (Gerbert) in which there is an appeal to the Latin world calling for military 
action against the Muslims; see Riant, ibid., 31-38, who proves that this is a forgery; see his 
references. The emissaries of the Pope: Riant, ibid., 35, n. 19. Orestes is credited with a 
treatise in praise of Saints Saba and Macarius, edited by Cozza-Luzi in 1893, and see in the 
introduction there some remarks about Orestes. On Orestes and Arsenius see also; Gay, 
L’ltalie meridionale, 262. On Theophilus: Yahya ibn Sa‘Id (Cheikho), 228, 230, 231; and he 
is also mentioned in the Greek sources noted above; see Ingulph’s chronicle, 148f; on 
Simeon II, see: Grumel, EO, 38(1939), 115f; he is credited with having written a letter in 
1094, allegedly, to Pope Urban II, with complaints about the Muslims’ mistreatment of 
the holy places; see Riant, ibid., 92—100, proving that it is a forgery. On the fact that this 
Simeon was patriarch until close to the conquest, see for instance Amann in DTC, VIII, 
lOOlf. 


464 



RITUAL AND CUSTOMS [SECS. 700-701] 


(writing in ca. 900), the naqus seemed to be characteristic of the Jerusalem 
Christians. Muqaddasi, thejerusalemite, writing in 985, knew the princi¬ 
pal dates of the Christian calendar and the Christian holidays. He gives 
pride of place to Easter, which, according to him fell during the nayriiz 
(the Persian new year); he then mentions the feast of Pentecost, ‘ansara, 
‘during the heat’; Christmas, ‘when it is cold’; the Barbara holiday, ‘during 
the rains’ (apparently on 4 December); the Qalandas, that is, 1 January; ‘id 
al-salib (‘Feast of the Cross’) ‘during the wine harvest’; ‘id Ludd (‘holiday of 
Lod’) ‘in sowing time’ (if this is the holiday of St George, it was always 
celebrated on 23 April, and one cannot understand how it fits in with ‘the 
sowing time’). 

An important holiday in Palestine was that of ‘id al-salib (Feast of the 
Cross), the holiday of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. Al-Blruni, who 
lived during the first half of the eleventh century, says that it was cel¬ 
ebrated on 14 September (Jlui), and that it was the day on which the 
emperor Constantine and his mother Helena found the cross (on which 
Jesus was crucified) and took it from the Jews, who had kept it with them 
buried in Jerusalem. He also notes that the Nestorians had their own rules 
in this matter, celebrating the Feast of the Cross on 13 September, because 
in their opinion this was the day the cross was found, while on the 14th, 
Helena showed it to the people. The holiday is mentioned in Geniza 
documents, for it was an indication that the time had arrived for the ships 
to put into their home ports, with the approach of the .winter’s stormy 
seas. A ship named s_alibiyya is mentioned, and I assume that the reference 
is to a particularly strong vessel, whose crew would dare to sail even after 
the holiday. There is also mention of ‘id al-sha‘anin, which is Palm Sunday 
(a week before Easter Sunday); this was a holiday which originated in 
Jerusalem and spread from there to other places. According to Yahya ibn 
Sa‘id, the Christians in Jerusalem would carry a huge olive tree from the 
church oial-'Azariyya to the Church of the Resurrection, despite the great 
distance between the two; the streets of the city were crowded with people 
bearing crosses, intoning and praying in open procession, while the gov¬ 
ernor of the city, with his entire retinue, would ride along and clear the 
way for them. A similar ceremony spread to Egypt until al-Hakim, in the 
year 328 (1007/8), absolutely forbade these ceremonies and particularly 
any kind of Muslim involvement in Christian feasts. In general, one may 
conclude that Palestine had immense influence on the formation of ritual 
customs and the order of prayers and ceremonies. In the monastery of Mar 
Saba, its famous typikon was produced; this was a book of prayers which 
contained lists and the principal versions of the prayers for the entire year. 
There was a special Jerusalem ritual of intoning the Psalms, which at the 
end of the ninth century consisted of 4,882 verses instead of the accepted 


465 



THE CHRISTIANS 


2,542. Antiphones (outer verses) were inserted and sung by the choir in 
between the Reader’s rendering of the Psalms. An unusual Jerusalem 
custom was the use of the Eucharist (the symbolic ‘Lord’s Supper’ given to 
believers) of wafers and not of leavened bread; from Jerusalem, this 
custom evidently spread to the Latins, while the Byzantine Church calls 
for the use of leavened bread. 40 

[701] The theme of the Paschal fire, which took on such comparatively 
large proportions in the Arab chronicles of the period, also falls within the 
context of rites and ceremonies. Easter was undoubtedly the central 
holiday of the Jerusalem Church, and pilgrims would come from all over 
the Christian world to celebrate it there. In the Church of the Resurrec¬ 
tion, there was a device whereby all the oil-lamps in the church could be lit 
at the moment when the Resurrection was to be proclaimed, and if one is 
to believe the Arab writers, starting from al-Jahiz, the Christians claimed 
that this was a miracle and that the candles were lit from heaven. About a 
century after al-Jahiz, Mas’udi described the lighting of the candles in the 
Church of the Resurrection: fire descends from the sky and lights the 
candles, he writes, with the help of a trick which he described in another 
book (which has not been preserved). Al-BirunT, writing in the first half of 
the eleventh century, has preserved the story of the fire from a version 
recorded in the previous century, according to which the episode occurs in 
the presence of representatives of the Muslims, among them the governor 
ofjerusalem. They place lamps and torches on the covered tomb ofjesus. 
The Christians extinguish the candles and torches which they are holding, 
until ‘a clean, white fire’ descends; from this, they light the lamps ‘in the 

40 See the text of Daniel al-Qumisi in TS 10 C 2, fol. lb (in his commentary to Dan., xi:32) in 
Mann, JQR, NS 12(1921/2), 518 (where it was read naqiim instead of naqus); see Muqad- 
dasl, AqdlTm, 182f; he lists further the months of the Christian year, starting from October. 
Birum, 301, 310. ‘Id al-salib, see 482, a, line 14 (the letter of Israel b. Nathan); see also 491, 
line 8: salibiyya; cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 317, 482, n. 32; Ibn Masawayh, a 
Nestorian writer from the first half of the ninth century, notes that in Jerusalem they 
would celebrate the ‘Feast of the Church of the Resurrection’ on 14 September (see the 
Sbath ed., 256). The Qalandas is also mentioned in Mas‘udi, Muruj, III, 406: ‘in al-Sham 
(Palestine and Syria) the population celebrates it by lighting fires’. ‘Id al-sha'anm, see: 
Yahya ibn Sa'id (PO), 279f; it seems to me that the word sha'antn is a Hebrew loan-word, 
from hosha'not. In the year AH 244 the Muslim chroniclers recorded an event the likes of 
which they say had never before occurred in Islam, namely the Feast of Immolation (10 
Dhu’l-Hijja), the Passover (fitr, fattr) of the Jews and al-sha'anm all three fell on the same 
day; see Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, VII, 85; Sibt ibn al-Jawzi, Mtr’dh (BM Or 4618), 128a; Ibn 
Taghri BardI, II, 318; an examination of the date shows, however, that the Feast of 
Immolation fell that year (859) on 19 March, while the first day of Passover AM 4619 fell 
on 23 March, on a Thursday. The typikon of Mar Saba: Krumbacher, Geschichte der 
byzantinischen Litteratur 2 , I, 314. See Linder, in: Peraqtm (1979), 12f, on elements of the 
hatted ofjews in the Jerusalem Christian ritual, especially during the Passion Week, as it 
was observed in the tenth century, following a Greek manuscript copied in Jerusalem in 
1122; see his references in n. 13. The intoning of the Psalms: Pargoire, L’eglise, 64; the 
matter of the bread: Every, ECQ, 6(1946), 367; cf.: A. Michel, Humbert and Kerullarios, II, 


466 



RITUAL AND CUSTOMS [SECS. 700-701] 


mosque [!] and the churches’. Afterwards an official account of the descent 
of the fire is written and sent to the caliph. If the fire came down swiftly 
and near noon-time, it was a sign that it would be a fruitful year, but if the 
fire came in the evening or even later, then a year of drought would 
follow. According to another version, it was the Muslim governor him¬ 
self who entered the Holy Sepulchre and was the first to light the candle he 
was holding. Al-BayhaqI, a contemporary of al-Biruni, has still another 
source, attributed to Abu Sahl ‘Isa b. Yahya al-MasIhl, a Christian of 
Jurjan, who described the episode of the fire in the first half of the tenth 
century. According to him, the fire descends from the air ( atlnr , a Greek 
loan-word, aither) in front of all the people, and although there is no 
aperture or window in the ceiling of the building, it penetrates through the 
roof without burning its wooden beams, the lamps and candles are then 
lit, and the fire disappears with the dawn. Ibn al-QalanisT, in the mid¬ 
twelfth century, connects the story of the fire with al-Hakim’s decrees, 
which have been discussed above. He attributes the descent of the fire to a 
trick and the use of a special oil, balsam oil (dulm al-balasan), which 
together with jasmin oil (duhn al-zanbaq) gives a bright white light. They 
draw a fine iron wire smeared with balsam oil, keeping the wire unseen, 
then they open the door of the altar above the Holy Sepulchre and light the 
fire from there, at which time all the lamps light up simultaneously, while 
the crowd assembled there assume that the fire has come down from 
heaven. Sibt ibn al-Jawzi, writing in the thirteenth century, claims that he 
himself lived in Jerusalem for ten years and that on Easter, he would go to 
the Church of the Resurrection to look into the matter. He describes the 
fire as coming from lamps that were lit in the dome above the Holy 
Sepulchre, after sundown on the eve of Easter Sunday, while the wor¬ 
shippers believed that the fire had descended from heaven. 

Alongside the Muslim sources, we also find Christian descriptions. The 
typikon of the Church of the Resurrection, from the ninth or tenth century, 
tells us that the starting point of the fire was in the Martyrion (that is, St 
Constantine’s church). The ceremony begins in the evening, with 
everyone dressed in white, and none of the lights aglow. It opens with the 
evening prayer intoned behind the Holy Sepulchre. After reading from the 
Book of Daniel, the patriarch goes up to the altar, distributes incense, and 
they begin to swing the incense burners while walking around the Se¬ 
pulchre three times. After this, the patriarch lights the holy fire (hagion 
phos), passes on the fire to the head deacon, who in turn passes it on to the 
worshippers, and from there they walk in procession to the Church of St 
Constantine. A fragment from an anonymous Syriac writer, evidently 

116ff. On the immense influence Jerusalem had on the matter of ritual and church 

ceremonies see: Baumstarck, Palastinapilger, 80. 


467 



THE CHRISTIANS 


from the Muslim period, mentions explicitly that the fire is lit simul¬ 
taneously by the patriarch and all the people. Arethas of Caesarea of 
Cappadocia, writing to the governor of Damascus at the outset of the 
tenth century, uses the example of the fire descending from heaven as 
proof of the superiority of Christianity. He also mentions the presence of 
Muslim officials at the ceremony when the fire suddenly appears. The 
Byzantine courtier Nicetas writes in 947 to emperor Constantine VII, 
Porphyrogenitus, describing the Easter ceremony in Jerusalem. The amir 
of the.area (undoubtedly Ramla), was present at the ritual, as was an amir 
from Baghdad, who had with him an order forbidding the ritual, giving as 
the reason for the ban, the tremendous impression it made on the entire 
Syrian population, who were easily influenced by acts of magic and 
thereby attracted towards Christianity. The patriarch Christodulus I de¬ 
fended the ceremony and stated that it was a miracle and not a magical act. 
Finally, after the Christians paid 7,000 dinars (including 2,000 in cash), 
they were permitted to carry on the ceremony and the miraculous appear¬ 
ance of the fire, with the sudden simultaneous lighting of all the candles, 
actually took place. In around 870, Bernard the monk also provides 
evidence of the belief that after the prayers of the eve of Easter Sunday, an 
angel descends who lights the fire in the lamps hanging above the Holy 
Sepulchre, and it is from this fire that the patriarch passes on fire to the 
bishops and to all the people. The story of Bar Hebraeus should also be 
mentioned; it notes in the description of the destruction of the Church of 
the Resurrection in al-Hakim’s time that the decree was imposed on the 
Christians when one of the Christian-haters told al-Hakim of the trick 
whereby the masses were made to believe that the fire actually descended 
from heaven. Bar Hebraeus naturally does not ascribe any truth to this 
story. However, it seems that according to the Christian sources, the 
belief that the fire came down from heaven was indeed common among 
the Christian masses, and that what the Muslims writers had to say about 
the stunt was founded on fact. 41 

41 Among the Muslim writers, it appears that the first to mention the matter of the lighting in 
the Church of the Resurrection was al-Jahiz in the first half of the ninth century; see 
Hayawan , 201 f; Mas'udI, Muriij, III, 405, where he writes (apparently by mistake) that the 
event occurs on 5 tishrin al-awwal, that is, in September. In his other book that has been 
preserved, Tanbih, 143, he notes however that ‘the appearance of the fire’ occurs on ‘the 
great sabbath’ on the eve of Easter Sunday. See the fragment from BIrunI: Flick, Docu- 
menta islamica inedita , 94; cf. Canard, Byzantion, 35(1955), 35f, who has references to other 
publications of the same source. See al-Bayhaql, 96; Ibn al-Qalanisi, 66; from whom Ibn 
al-Jawzi copied, Muntazam, VII, 239 (with a few omissions), and after him, his grandson, 
Sibt ibn al-Jawzi, Mir’ah (BM Or 4619), 189b. Canard, ibid., 20, assumed that Ibn 
al-Qalanisi and Sibt ibn al-Jawzi used a common source, Hilal al-Sabi — a Baghdadi writer 
of the first half of the eleventh century; see ibid. , 39f, the translation of a further fragment 
from Sibt ibn al-Jawzi, a Paris manuscript, and see the editor’s supplement in Ibn 
al-Qalanisi, 68. Ibn Kathir, Bidaya, XI, 339, explains this stunt as follows: silk threads and 


468 



THE AUTHORITIES AND THE CHRISTIANS [SECS. 702-713] 

The authorities and the Christians 

[702] We have seen that in theory the Muslim authorities were obliged, 
according to the rules and precedents laid down in the days of the Prophet 
and the first caliphs, to respect the rights of the Christians. The Christians 
became ‘protected people’, deprived of political rights and sovereign 
status, forbidden to carry arms and obliged to pay taxes. On the other 
hand, they were given the freedom to practice their own rituals and the 
assurance of having their lives, property and their various holy places 
defended. One cannot say that these rules were not observed at all, but a 
picture of maltreatment and varying degrees of persecution emerges from 
the sources. The endless state of war with the Byzantines naturally con¬ 
tributed to this to a large extent. Despite the fact that they were politically 
isolated for many generations, and that the cultural and linguistic differ¬ 
ences between the Aramaic and Arabic-speaking Eastern Christians and 
the Byzantine Greeks grew and intensified, the Byzantine emperor still 
saw himself as the defender and patron of the Christians and the holy 
places in Palestine during this entire period. On the other hand, the 
Muslim rulers saw the Christians and their holy places as Byzantine 
hostages to a certain degree. On more than one occasion they reacted to 
hostile acts or mistreatment on the part of the Byzantines, by applying 
pressure and carrying out reprisals on the Christians in Islamic countries, 
especially in Palestine, and primarily in Jerusalem. 

I have already mentioned the letter written by the Ikhshld (937) to the 
emperor Romanus I in which he boastfully describes in detail the size of 
the Christian population and the importance of the Christian holy places 
which he controls. We have also seen how the patriarch Theodosius was 

rags dipped in sulphur and similar materials; the Christian fragments: Le Codex, 84—100, 
see the Syriac fragment on p. 91. The letter of Arethas to the amir of Damascus describes 
the Easter ceremony, held in the presence of the amir, governor ofjerusalem, who closes 
and seals the Holy Sepulchre, while the Christians hold a single candle. That candle lights 
itself and is used to light the candles of all those present (while Muhammad’s tomb, adds 
this polemical treatise, remains completely in the dark). See Abel, Byzantion, 24(1954), 
365; Karlin-Hayter, ibid., 29/30:281, 1959/60; Canard, ibid., 29, who has further refer¬ 
ences; and in the continuation, ibid., 30-34, Nicetas’ letter; see it in its entirety, with an 
introduction and French translation: Riant, AOL, 1(1881), 375-382, with references to 
earlier publications. Bernard: Tobler et Molinier, I, 315. See Bar Hebraeus (Bedjan), 204; 
(Budge), 184. From the research literature, 1 would point out the aforementioned compre¬ 
hensive article of Canard, with a detailed discussion of almost all the sources I have 
mentioned and a few more sources, and with references to earlier scholars. I shall note 
further: Baumstarck, Paldstinapilger, 6f; Cheikho, al -Mashriq, 1913, 188:16 (from a manu¬ 
script of the twelfth century writer, al-Jubari, he also quotes the story of the Ayyubid ruler 
al-Malik al-’Adil who wished to enquire into the matter of the fire, but a monk explained 
to him that if he wished to know the secret, he would not receive the money, and the 
Sultan understood the hint); Vincent et Abel, Jerusalem 11(1), 229. A description of the 
Easter fire is also to be found in the treatise on the calendar by the Copt al-As‘ad ibn 
al-‘Assal, of the mid-thirteenth century (see: Graf, GCAL, II, 403, 405f). 


469 



THE CHRISTIANS 


duty-bound to write in praise of the Muslim rulers’ behaviour, while 
making the point that he writes on the basis of ‘a proposal which cannot be 
refused’ and requesting concessions for the Muslims so that they should 
not mistreat the Christians. We are also aware ofhow in around 940, when 
information regarding brutality towards the Muslim captives became 
known, the Muslims put pressure on the patriarchs of Antioch and Jerusa¬ 
lem in this matter. One of the excellent Arab writers of the latter part of the 
tenth century, the Baghdadian al-Tanukhi, innocently tells of two Chris¬ 
tian leaders, the patriarch of Antioch and the patriarch of Jerusalem 
(whom he calls, for some reason, the catholicus - al-qatallq), whose 
authority is accepted by the Byzantine emperor to such an extent that these 
two can even put a ban on him or remove a ban. It is accepted among the 
Byzantines, he writes, that anyone whose opinion differs from that of 
these two is an unbeliever and that an emperor cannot sit on the throne in 
Byzantium unless these two consent to it, and he owes them allegiance and 
they have to justify his deeds. All this, ‘despite the fact that we are the 
rulers in these lands and these two are our clients’. On occasion we find 
one of the close retainers of the Byzantine emperor being sent on a special 
mission to Palestine; it appears that there was even a kind of resident 
emissary, permanently staying in Palestine, as Maqrizi implies, mention¬ 
ing ‘the envoy of the Byzantine emperor in Palestine’ (or literally, in jund 
Filastin, for in that period the terms Filastin and Palestine were not 
identical, the former meaning the southern part of the country, as I have 
already explained). Maqrizi is referring here to Kafur, the ruler of Egypt, 
who, it was said, took this emissary to Egypt with him in Dhu’l-Hijja AH 
334 (August AD 946). 

Despite the persecution and maltreatment, one should bear in mind that 
the Christians had immense influence and positions of power, chiefly 
because of the gifted administrators among them who occupied govern¬ 
ment posts despite the ban in Muslim law against employing Christians, 
or who were part of the intelligentsia of the period owing to the fact that 
they were outstanding scientists, mathematicians, physicians and so on. In 
the mid-ninth century, for instance, Bulus (Paulus) b. Hanun ‘the phys¬ 
ician to the people of Filastin’, is mentioned, as is his conversation with 
Salawayh b. Banan, Caliph al-Mu‘tasim’s physician, carried on in Ara¬ 
maic ( bi’l-suryaniyya). ‘Abd al-Jabbar, writing in 995, notes that ‘kings in 
Egypt, al-Sham, Iraq,Jazira, Faris, and in all their surroundings, rely upon 
the Christians in matters of officialdom, the central administration and the 
handling of funds. It is the Christians who manage the Muslims’ affairs, 
collect money from them, imposing taxes on them for everything, which 
is contrary to law, being a deed which God has not permitted according to 
the Koran, and by doing so, they impoverish Islam and spend the money 


470 



THE AUTHORITIES AND THE CHRISTIANS [SECS. 702-713) 

on contemptible things.’ On the other hand, the learned Muslim in¬ 
tellectuals were inclined to console themselves with the hope that eventu¬ 
ally all the Christians would accept Islam and even ascribed to the Prophet 
the following tradition on the subject: ‘in the future, Jesus himself- when 
he descends from the heavens a second time, onto the eastern white 
lighthouse in Damascus - will break the cross, kill the pigs, and cancel the 
jizya; he will refuse to receive the jizya from anyone, and will not agree to 
anything else but that they, and all the rest, should accept Islam’. 42 

[703] Almost generation after generation, the Christian writers re¬ 
corded acts of persecution and harassment, to the point of slaughter and 
destruction, suffered by the Christians at the hands of the Muslim rulers. 
Foremost among these is the account of sixty Byzantine soldiers who were 
taken captive by the Muslims after the capture of Gaza and executed 
because of their refusal to accept Islam. The conquest of Palestine by the 
Muslims was naturally an act of war accompanied by a great deal of 
bloodshed, but this story in itself has no historical truth and was merely 
invented along the lines of the pattern of the later relationship between the 
two worlds — Christianity and Islam. 43 

[704] As to the eighties of the seventh century, we have the story of the 
ousting of the alleged patriarch Theodore (sec. 684); but this is of no 
historical value. A more credible description, though of a general nature, 
is to be found in the annals of the patriarchs by Sawlrus ibn Muqaffa 1 , who 
notes that the Christians were persecuted in ‘Abd al-Malik’s day (685- 
705). They were considered allies of the Byzantines and were treated 
accordingly, with their lives unprotected. The collection of the jizya was 
carried out relentlessly; for instance, a corpse could not be buried before 
the jizya was paid, even if the deceased had been a poor man who did not 
have enough for bread. One can also include here the legendary story of 
the death of a monk from Mar Saba called Michael, who sold baskets and 
mats in Jerusalem. The wife of Caliph Adramelek (!) tried to seduce him 
and when he rejected her, she accused him of assault, and he was eventu¬ 
ally executed outside the walls of Jerusalem. Theophanes tells a more 
credible story about ‘Abd al-Malik, who wanted to remove the pillars of 

42 See Ibn al-jawzl, Muntazam, VI, 353; TanukhI, Nishwar, I, 30. The Byzantine emissary: 
MaqrizI, Khitat, III, 108. Kafur may have tried to win the hearts of the Christians through 
the emissary and thus prevent them from supporting the Hamdanids, who invaded 
Palestine at that time. Paulus the physician: see Ibn Abl Usaybi'a, I, 168, according to a 
‘history of the physicians’, written by Yusuf ibn Ibrahim ibn al-Daya, who died in AH 
265, that is AD 878; cf. Sezgin, III, 231; ‘Abd al-Jabbar, Tathbil , I, 191. The tradition on 
Jesus is to be found in many places in different versions; see for instance Ibn Kathlr, Biday a, 
VII, 256; he will cancel the jizya: meaning that he will take away the protection given in 
exchange for the jizya, and whoever wishes to live, will accept Islam. 

43 See the story of the sixty martyrs: Delahaye, Analecta Bollandiana, 23:289, 1904; see on this 
matter the article of Pargoire, EO, 8:40, 1905, who even discusses the names of those 


471 



THE CHRISTIANS 


the church of Gethsemane in order to build the temple in Mecca. 
However, he yielded to pleas of Sergius b. Mansur, who was the logothetes 
(a Byzantine office, a sort of prime minister) and a friend of‘Abd al-Malik; 
of a certain Patrikios, also one of the caliph’s friends, and of the man who 
was the leader (proukhon) of the Christians in Palestine (ton kata ten Palaisti- 
nen Khristianon ), Klausus. These three convinced him to ask Justinian II 
(Rhinotmetus) for other pillars in their stead. One can give more credence 
to this story, as even in Muslim sources similar episodes have been 
recorded. An example is that of the destruction of the church of St John in 
Damascus during the rule of Caliph al-Walid b. ‘Abd al-Malik (705-715), 
because of its proximity to the mosque and the Muslims’ desire to extend 
the mosque. Al-Walid was not taken aback by the warnings of the Chris¬ 
tians that if he did this, he would turn into a jinn. He turned over the actual 
destruction to the Jews, who came and razed the church to the ground. 
Afterwards when al-Walid wanted to start on the construction of the 
mosque, he asked the emperor to send him a master builder ( sani *) from 
Byzantium, or else he would destroy all the churches in the land and also 
that of Jerusalem (undoubtedly referring to the Church of the Resurrec¬ 
tion), as well as the church in Ruha (that is, Edessa) and the rest of‘the holy 
buildings ( athar) of the Byzantines’ (he probably means the Christians). 44 

[705] A Georgian source tells a story of a saint named Petrus, who was 
executed by the Arabs on 13 January 713, and how he cursed the Muslim 
religion when he was about to die. This occurred in Capitolias, that is Bayt 
Ra’s in Trans-Jordan (north of Irbid). Here, too, the Jews are involved, 
demonstrating their hatred of the Christians, and especially the Kubaris 
(Khaybarls?). Theophanes tells a parallel story, similar in all its details, 
except that it takes place in Mayumas (the Gaza port). 45 

Byzantine soldiers and discovers proof of the presence of two cohorts there, one of 
Scythians and one cohors voluntariorum. 

44 The banishing of the patriarch (to a distance of 2,000 miles), see: Papadopoulos-Kera- 
meos, Analekta , II, 299. Sawlrus, I (Seybold), 136. The story of Michael: in a Russian 
source, The Life of Theodore of Edessa, see: Vailhe, EO, 3(1899-1900), 25; he places this 
story in the first half of the ninth century, but the name of the caliph should apparently be 
‘Abd al-Malik. Theophanes, 365. The church of Stjohn: Ibn ‘Asakir, 11(1) (new edition), 
23, 26. 

45 The story of Petrus, see: Peeters, Analecta Bollandiana, 57:299, 1939; Theophanes, 416f. 
Peeters tried to prove that the dayr (monastery) of Mimas in Syria is meant, which is 
mentioned in Yaqut, Buldan, II, 702. According to Yaqut, a Christian saint was buried 
there who had healed the sick; the poet Butayn came there to be healed, but in his illness he 
could not restrain himself and urinated on the grave and the saint killed him; the people of 
Egypt were angered by this, and they came there and demanded that the bones of the saint 
be burned, but the Christians bribed the governor of Hims and through him, managed to 
get rid of them. It seems that there is an error in Yaqut and the story is in fact referring to 
Mayumas of Gaza (also mentioning ‘the people of Egypt’ makes this likely), as in 
Theophanes. Naturally, one cannot conclude anything definitely in such a matter, as it is a 
source of a legendary nature; but it seems that an element of historical truth is found in 


472 



THE AUTHORITIES AND THE CHRISTIANS [SECS. 702-713) 

[706] Another story concerns seventy young Christians from Iconium, 
in Asia Minor, who wanted to go on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem in the days 
of Leo III the Isaurian (717-741). They were not given permission to do so 
(apparently the intention of the story is that the refusal was due to the fact 
that the emperor was an iconoclast) but nevertheless set out on their way. 
The Arab governor of Caesarea caught them and accused them of espion¬ 
age; he then had them executed, barring seven who agreed to accept Islam. 
A similar incident is related, as having occurred during the rule of Sulay- 
man b. ‘Abd al-Malik (715-717) or of‘Umar b. ‘Abd al-‘AzIz (717-720): 
sixty pilgrims from Amorion, also in Asia Minor, were apparently cruci¬ 
fied injerusalem, according to a Syriac source translated into Greek. What 
Willibald witnessed during his own pilgrimage, when the Muslims threat¬ 
ened to destroy the ‘Church of the Christians’ (that is, again, the Church of 
the Resurrection) if they were not paid enormous sums of money, also 
applies to the same period. Willibald further notes that in Nazareth, the 
Christians had repeatedly to pay ransom to the Muslims for the return of 
the Church of the Annunciation. 46 

[707] We also have information on the persecution of Christians during 
the early part of Abbasid rule. A Greek Church source speaks of the ban 
which ‘Abdallah, ‘head of the Arabs’, put on placing a cross injerusalem. 
According to this source, he evicted the monks from their monasteries. He 
made thejews destroy the Holy Sepulchre and the other places of worship. 
As the writer attributes these acts to the time of Constantine V Coprony- 
mus (741-775), one can assume that perhaps Abu’l~‘Abbas ‘Abdallah 
al-Saffah, the first Abbasid caliph, is being referred to; or perhaps the 
reference is to his uncle, ‘Abdallah b. ‘All, who was governor of jund 
Urdunn and whose rule may also have extended to jund Filastln. 

In 755, so Theophanes tells us, ‘Abdallah (evidently the same governor) 
increased the tax {phorologia) imposed on the Christians. He also ordered 
that a tax be imposed on the Christian priests and monks (certainly 
contrary to what had been the custom until then). He confiscated (literally: 
put his seal on) the valuable sacred articles and compelled thejews to buy 
them, and these ‘protected people’ actually put these sacred articles up for 
auction. Theophanes also mentions that the ruler also ordered the crosses 
over their churches to be removed and forbade the Christians to hold 
midnight services or even teach their scriptures. In 772, when ‘Abdallah 

Theophanes, who is referring to persecution during the days of al-Walid, in the Gaza 
region, and perhaps also in Trans-Jordan. 

46 Iconium and Amorion - perhaps speaking of the same episode. See: AA SS, October, IX, 
359f; Papodopoulos-Kerameos, Historia , 278; Peelers, Trefonds, 180; Constantelos, By- 
zantioti, 42 (1972), 340f. Willibald, in Tobler etMolinier, I, 260, cf. Baumstarck, Palastina- 
pilger, 70; Brehier, RH, 157(1928), 279; Vincent et Abel, Jerusalem, II, 938. See more on the 
persecution of the Christians during the rule of‘Umaribn ‘Abd al-‘Aziz, according to the 


473 



THE CHRISTIANS 


(Caliph al-Mansur, this time) visited Jerusalem, he ordered that a special 
mark should be stamped on the hands of the Christians and the Jews. 
Many Christians then fled to Byzantium. 47 

[708] Persecution persisted throughout the following decade as well. 
One source tells of a Muslim who converted to Christianity and became a 
monk, and renamed Christophoros. He was beheaded on 14 April 789. At 
around the same time, evidently, there was an Arab attack on the monas¬ 
tery of St Theodosius, near Bethlehem. The monastery was pillaged, 
many of the monks were slaughtered and some escaped. The attackers also 
destroyed two churches near that monastery. A Church source tells about 
the suffering endured by the monasteries in thejudaean mountains during 
the inter-tribal war which broke out in 796, which I have already de¬ 
scribed. While Bet Guvrin was being abandoned by its inhabitants, who 
were falling captive to the Arabs, assaults were being made on Ascalon, 
Gaza and other localities. Everywhere there was pillage and destruction. 
The Bedouin came from the direction of Jerusalem and attacked the 
monastery in Wadi Chariton; sixty Bedouin invaded the monastery of 
Mar Saba, abusing sixty of the monks, some of whom were killed and 
some wounded. This happened on the Wednesday before Easter, 13 
March 796. The attack was renewed on 20 March, and 20 men died in the 
flames. 48 

[709] Again, Theophanes tells us of the events of 809 - and as he was a 
contemporary, his evidence with regard to these years is both interesting 
and quite credible - when Harun al-Rashid died and a fratricidal war broke 
out between the brothers al-Amin and al-Ma’mun. According to him 
these events caused the Christians an enormous amount of suffering. 
Many churches and monasteries in Jerusalem and its environs were aban- 

Armenian writer Ghevond (Leontius): Jeffery, HTR, 37(1944), 269, and see references 
there, n. 3. 

47 The decrees of‘Abdallah al-Saffah: Papadopoulos-Kerameos, Analekta, II, 299; cf. Mus¬ 
set, Histoire, 255; see Theophanes, 430, 439, 443f; cf. Breyer, 97; ‘Abdallah b.'All is 
mentioned above, see Tabari, Ta’rikh, III, 84. The assumption that it is he who Theo¬ 
phanes is speaking of is supported by the fact that Theophanes notes that he (that is, 
‘Abdallah ibn ‘All, Ibnalim - as Theophanes has it) died in AM 6258, that is AD 764/5, 
which is not the year of the caliph’s death. Theophanes uses the term apeleutherov, 
Anastasius translated it as: liberty, that is, apparently meaning freedmen, but this is not so, 
since he is using the term to correspond to the Arabic dhimmi (protected people); that is, 
after having mentioned the Jews ( Hebraioi ) he continues: ‘and [these] dhimmls put them up 
for auction’, etc. Cf. Brehier, RH, 157(1928), 279 (he is wholly mistaken in his reckoning 
of the dates and speaks of 749 and 758; nor does he even try to clarify the identity of that 
amir named ‘Abdallah). 

48 The monk Christophoros: Vailhe, ROC, 6(1901), 315. The monastery of St Theodosius: 
De casis Dei in Tobler et Molinier, I, 303. See on the events of 796: Vailhe, EO, 3(1899- 
1900), 23; the date is evidently an error, because Easter had to fall on 17 March according to 
this, but Passover fell on 29 March in that year (AM 4556) and Easter never comes before 
Passover; see also: Vailhe, ROC, 6(1901), 316; the story is also found in AA 


474 



THE AUTHORITIES AND THE CHRISTIANS [SECS. 702-713) 


doned, such as those of Sts Cyriac, Theodosius, Chariton, Euthymius, 
and Mar Saba. Four years later, in 813, the disturbances broke out anew 
and many Christians, both monks and laity, fled from Palestine to Cyprus 
and Constantinople, where they found a refuge from the Arabs’ terrible 
persecution in those days of anarchy and civil war. Palestine was the scene 
of violence, rape and murder. Here Theophanes repeats his account of the 
abandonment of churches; according to him, this applied to the Church of 
the Resurrection and other churches in the vicinity as well. The emperor 
Michael I (Rangabe) and the patriarch of Constantinople, Nicephorus, did 
everything in their power to help the refugees. In Constantinople, an 
important monastery was placed at their disposal and they were also given 
considerable financial aid. Apparently, the disturbances and the flight of 
the Christians are also reflected in Maqrizi’s account, that when the Coptic 
patriarch of Alexandria, Ya'qub, held office (after the year AH 211, which 
is AD 826/7), the church in Jerusalem was rebuilt for the Christians who 
had returned from Egypt, from which we learn that they had also fled to 
Egypt - not only to Cyprus and Constantinople. 49 

[710] It seems that after al-Ma’mun established his rule on firm foun¬ 
dations, a certain stability began to be felt throughout the caliphate, and 
although it would be impossible to define this period which began and 
continued almost until the days of the Ikhshldids as one of internal peace 
and tranquillity, it seems that the situation of the Christians became more 
secure. In fact, we no longer hear of acts of persecution during the ninth 
century, nor in the first quarter of the tenth century. 

Waves of persecution broke out anew in Jumada II AH 311 (October- 
November AD 923). According to Sa'Id ibn Bitriq, the Muslims attacked 
two churches of the Melkites (the central sect connected with the Byzan¬ 
tines); namely the church of St Cosmas and the church of St Cyriac in 
Ramla. There were also atrocities in Ascalon and Caesarea, where, too, 
churches were destroyed. The Christians complained to Caliph al-Muq- 
tadir, and his response was to order the rebuilding of what had been 
destroyed (despite the Muslim law which forbade the dhimmis to build 
houses of worship). After a peaceful interlude, disturbances recurred 
during the rule of Muhammad ibn Tughj, the Ikhshld, in AH 325, which 
covers ca. AD 937. According to Sa'Id ibn Bitriq, the Muslims attacked the 

SS, March, III, 20, pp. 166-179; cf. Constantelos, Byzantion, 42(1972), 343 (he has the 
year 786 instead of 796); cf. further: Musset, Hisioire, 255. 

49 Theophanes, 484, 499; an echo of these disturbances can be found in the Saxon chronicler, 
see Annalista Saxo, MCH (SS), VI, 570 who speaks of the destruction ofjerusalem ‘by the 
Persians’ and the great persecution of the Christians in the East in 814; cf. Papadopoulos- 
Kerameos, Analekta, II, 299; III, 4; Vailhe, EO, 3(1899-1900), 24; idem, ROC, 6(1901), 
325f, Tobler, Golgatha, 112; Berliere, Revue benedictine, 5(1888), 444; Brehier, RH, 157 
(1928), 279, see MaqrizT, Khitat, III, 397. 


475 



THE CHRISTIANS 


church in Jerusalem on Palm Sunday ( al-sha'amn ; 26 March 937) and set 
fire to the southern gates of Constantine’s church and to half of the exedra, 
whereupon the Church of the Calvary and the Church of the Resurrection 
collapsed. This occurred in the year Christodulus the first ascended the 
patriarchal seat. According to al-Makln and Maqrlzl, the Church of the 
Resurrection and the Church of the Calvary were also robbed of their 
treasures. 50 

[711] It seems that at the same time, the Muslims attacked in Ascalon 
again. According to Yahya ibn Sa‘id, the assault was made on the ‘great 
church there, known by the name of Mary the Green. They destroyed it 
and robbed it of all its contents and then set fire to it’. He stresses that it was 
thejews who demolished it, with the Muslims’ support. Thejews gutted 
its timber beams with fire, firstly on the roofs, so that their lead would 
melt and the supporting pillars would collapse. The bishop of Ascalon 
then left for Baghdad to get permission to rebuild the church, but he did 
not succeed. The church was left in ruins, for the Muslims who lived in 
Ascalon agreed amongst themselves that they would not allow it to be 
built again. As to the bishop, he never returned to Ascalon and remained in 
Ramla until his death. 51 

50 Cahen, Bulletin de la faculte des lettres de Strasbourg , 29(1950), 122; idem, Past and Present , 
6(1954), 6f, claims again that Muslim rule, in general, saw a period of peace and security, 
and that the sole persecution of the Christians recorded under Islam occurred during 
al-Hakim’s rule. This is an apologetic and incomprehensible approach which ignores the 
facts. The period of some hundred years, beginning in around 815 and ending in 923 is the 
only period from which we have no information on the persecution of Christians in 
Palestine. The riots in 923: Sa‘Id ibn Bitriq, II, 82; evidently his source when speaking of 
Ramla actually meant jund Filastln, for the churches in the name of Cosmas and Cyriac 
were in Jerusalem, not in Ramla. At the same time, there were also atrocities against the 
Christians in Tinnls in Egypt and in Damascus, see ibid., in the continuation; the riots 
continued for a whole year, until the middle of Rajab AH 312, mid-October AD 924. The 
disturbances in Jerusalem: SaTd ibn Bitriq, II, 87; al-Makin, 208; Maqrlzl, Khitat, III, 396; 
cf. Clermont-Ganneau, Receuil, II, 308 (the inscription relating to the mosque supposedly 
built near the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, according to him, spoke of the ban on 
dhimmls entering a mosque [unidentified] in order to pay taxes and was dealt with above); 
Baumstarck, Bauten, 17f, tries to understand the intention of what is said about the 
southern doors of the Church of Constantine and suggests two possibilities: either it is 
referring to the southern facade of the church (according to Heisenberg), or the southern 
side entrance of the eastern wing. 

51 The Jerusalem patriarch mentions in his letter, RHGF, IX, 294f, that in ca. 880, the 
governor of the region (Ramla?) was a Christian. See on the church in Ascalon: Yahya ibn 
SaTd (PO), 21; we have seen above that in Damascus as well it was thejews who destroyed 
the church; which may naturally be considered slander and calumny on the part of the 
Christians, but on further consideration, there is apparently no real reason to question the 
authenticity of this information. The situation is understandable against the background 
of hatred between thejews and the Christians and in view of the fact that the Muslims were 
the minority in this urban population and it was the Jewish masses who executed the 
work, with the consent and support of the authorities. See above later evidence with 
regard to the ‘green mosque’ in Ascalon, that is, the church was turned into a mosque 
some time afterwards. 


476 



THE AUTHORITIES AND THE CHRISTIANS [SECS. 702-713) 


[712] The riots and the ravaging of the churches in the year 966 have 
already been described, and we have seen how this formed part of the 
pattern of general tension and warfare carried on by the Byzantines in their 
attempt to regain control of the region, particularly Jerusalem, and it is 
difficult to distinguish between the motive and the results. On the one 
hand, there is no doubt that the Byzantine offensives aroused antagonism 
towards the Christians; while on the other hand, the mistreatment of the 
Christian population, and especially the churches ofjerusalem, was what 
drove the Byzantines to recruit forces for a struggle of a decidedly re¬ 
ligious nature — namely, to free Jerusalem of the Muslims in a sort of 
tenth-century crusade. The hostile acts and the religious assaults reached 
their peak during al-Hakim’s rule, as we have seen, when openly and 
brazenly, in a wholesale manner, he ignored the basic principles of Muslim 
law with regard to the dhimmls, compelled the Christians to accept Islam 
and destroyed the Christians’ and Jews’ houses of worship. These acts of 
destruction were widespread and exhaustive, as can be concluded from the 
facts I have given above, and the demolition orders were executed even in 
far-off localities, relatively distant from the reigning centre, such as Jubayl 
and Tripoli in Syria. One exception was evidently the Church of St Mary 
(the Nativity) in Bethlehem. According to Adhemar de Chabannes, who 
was a contemporary (he died in 1034 in Jerusalem), the ‘pagans’ did not 
succeed in reducing it to ruins, for the appearance of a heavenly light 
caused the death of those who came to destroy it and no one has since dared 
to touch ‘the church of the mother of God’. In the days of al-Zahir, as we 
have seen, the destruction of the churches continued and their building 
stones were used to restore the walls of the city. We have also seen the 
matter of the confiscation of valuable sacred articles of the Church of the 
Resurrection in al-Mustansir’s time, a reprisal for the fact that in Constan¬ 
tinople orders were given to pray for the well-being of the caliph in 
Baghdad. Rumours of the confiscation spread to the West and accumu¬ 
lated substance on the way, until there was talk of the repeated destruction 
of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. 

The building of a wall around the Christian quarter in Jerusalem in the 
sixties of the eleventh century is also linked to the question of the rulers’ 
attitude towards the Christians. The source from which we derive most of 
our information on this affair, the chronicle of William of Tyre, is some¬ 
what ambivalent on the subject. What at the beginning of the description 
seems to be concern for the fortification ofjerusalem, a kind of overall 
interest in the city, gradually becomes a matter of the maltreatment of the 
Christians. At first, he describes the pressure put on the Christians to 
supply money, despite their poverty and distress. Afterwards, and this is 
the main point, comes their enclosure in a kind of ghetto. For if we look 


477 



THE CHRISTIANS 


into the description of the borders of the quarter allotted to them, we see 
that they have been crowded into the northern part of the city. This is how 
William of Tyre depicts the outlines of its wall: from the western gate 
called David (today, the Jaffa Gate) via the square tower known by the 
name of Tancred (in the neighbourhood of today’s New Gate), until the 
northern gate named for Stephen (that is, today’s Lions Gate), and the 
outer wall being its boundary; while within the city, the boundary was 
‘the public way’ (via publica ) which stretches from that gate until the 
‘moneychangers’ tables’ and from there, to the western gate. That is to 
say, they crowded the Christians into the area surrounding the Church of 
the Holy Sepulchre. I have not surveyed this matter to the full, and we 
shall learn of additional details concerning the rulers’ attitude to the 
Christians in the discussions below, especially in the discussion on the 
subject of Christian pilgrims. 52 

[713] After the Turcomans’ conquest, it seems that most of the pressure 
was directed towards the central Greek Church, which was linked with 
Byzantium. In Cahen’s view, this conquest caused the abolition of Byzan¬ 
tine patronage of the Christians, which had existed under the Fatimids and 
was generally accepted by them. Conversely, the status of the Latins rose, 
and particularly the activities of the Amalfians. The Latins dominated the 
churches and interfered with the rituals of the Greeks. 53 

Aid and reconstruction 

[714] Against the background of waves of persecution and destructive 
acts, the efforts at reconstruction stand out and projects to raise money to 
help Jerusalem are repeated again and again - projects in which Church 
organisations throughout the Christian world and rulers of Christian 
countries focus on Jerusalem. In the sources I have surveyed above, the 
special connection with Byzantium is noted: the role of the Byzantine 
emperor and his intervention on behalf of the Christians in the Holy Land, 
the involvement of the Byzantine Church and its monks in the events in 
Palestine, the aid to refugees from Palestine, and similar matters. 

We have information on the restoration of the Church of the Holy 
Sepulchre in around 820, after the devastation carried out in 813, as we 
have seen above. Sa‘Id ibn Bitriq makes a point of the fact that this was a 
time of internal warfare among the Muslims; Jerusalem was undergoing 
severe hardship and scarcity, and the Muslims almost completely aban¬ 
doned the city. The patriarch Thomas I managed to obtain fifty cedar and 

52 See Adhemar in RHGF, X, 152, cf. De Vogue, Eglises, 62. The rumour about the 

destruction of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in 1056: Annates Augustani, MGH ( SS), 

III, 127. The wall: see William of Tyre. 392 (Book IX, ch. xviii). See above, sec. 601. 

53 Cahen, Bulletin de lafaculte des lettres de Strasbourg, 29(1950), 120ff and references there. 



AID AND RECONSTRUCTION [SECS. 714-718] 


pine beams to restore the dome of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. The 
money came from a wealthy Egyptian Christian by the name of Bakam, 
who hailed from a place called Bayt Burah. He insisted that they should 
not take donations for this purpose from anyone other than himself. When 
the Abbasid commander ‘Abdallah ibn Tahir came to Jerusalem ett route to 
Baghdad from Egypt (827), the Muslims came to Jerusalem to complain to 
him that the Christians had disobeyed Muslim law by building a larger 
dome than the former one, as big as the Dome of the Rock. ‘Abdallah 
ordered that the matter be investigated and warned the patriarch Thomas 
that he would have him whipped had he found the accusation to be true. 
Then a certain Muslim suggested to the patriarch how he could fool the 
ruler, and received a bribe of 1,000 dinars for his suggestion as well as a 
promise that he and his heirs would receive an allowance similar to those 
received by the sextons of the church. As the Muslim had suggested, the 
patriarch was to claim that he had not enlarged the dome but merely 
repaired it; anyone who claimed the contrary would have to prove that the 
former dome had indeed been smaller. The scheme was a success and that 
Muslim’s heirs continued to receive an allowance until there were no heirs 
left, apart from one daughter, and then the patriarch Elias ibn Mansur 
(878-907) stopped the allowance. 34 

[715] We have considerable evidence from the Latin world. This evi¬ 
dence has been preserved in western archives, while the Byzantine ar¬ 
chives have been lost. In 881, Elias, patriarch of Jerusalem, sent a letter to 
all the bishops, princes and nobility of the Frankish kingdom, informing 
them that a Christian has become governor of the region and that he has 
ordered the rebuilding of the churches. In order to raise the funds needed 
for this project, the Christians have mortgaged all the lands and property 
of the Church, even the vineyards and the olive groves. This was obvi¬ 
ously written with the intention of getting financial support from the 
Franks. There are also sources which speak of Rome’s increasing support 
for the Christians in Palestine in this period (the end of the ninth century) 
and large donations even arrived from far-off England. 55 

[716] We have seen that after the fire which consumed the Church of the 

54 SaTd ibn Bitrlq, II, 55f; what he writes about the Muslims abandoning Jerusalem is 
definitely credible and to a certain extent, this is evidence of how far the Muslims in 
Jerusalem at that time were still a minority without roots; cf. Papadopoulous-Kerameos, 
Analekta, III, 4; Tobler, Colgatha, 112. One should note the chronological contradiction in 
the sources, which is that the patriarch Thomas died in 820, while SaTd ibn Bitrlq claims 
that the meeting with ‘Abdallah ibn Tahir took place at the end of his campaign in Egypt, 
which fell in 827. 

55 Elias’ letter: RHGF, IX, 294f; the matter of the Christian governor has already been 
mentioned in the description of the events of that period, as well as Ahmad ibn Tulun’s 
positive attitude towards the dhimmls. Assistance from Rome and from England: Riant, 
AOL, 1(1881), 28. 


479 



THE CHRISTIANS 


Resurrection in 966, Kafur, the ruler of Egypt, was prepared to restore it, 
but the Byzantine emperor rejected his proposal and threatened that he 
would achieve this end by warfare. As we have seen, this war indeed took 
place. Hence, it seems that the first reconstruction of the Church of the 
Resurrection was executed only in the year 1011, after the total destruction 
carried out on al-Hakim’s orders, when Palestine was ruled by Arab tribes 
under the leadership of the Jarrahids. As we have seen, they appointed a 
new patriarch, Theophilus, and initiated the reconstruction of the Church 
of the Resurrection and even demanded that the Christians come forward 
in this matter, while in the meantime the buildings surrounding the Holy 
Sepulchre suffered additional ruination in the days of al-Hakim. It seems, 
however, that the basic restoration of the churches after al-Hakim’s de¬ 
crees and extensive destruction only began during al-Zahir’s rule, 
although we have seen that even in his day there was some destruction of 
churches. The work of restoration was made possible by the notable 
assistance coming from Constantinople. The work was finished during 
al-Mustansir’s day, in 1048, some forty years after the destruction. The 
patriarch ofjerusalem, Nicephorus, sent a special mission to Constantin¬ 
ople, headed by John of Caria (a district in Asia Minor), a native of 
Constantinople who had become a monk in Jerusalem. Al-Zahir ex¬ 
pressed his consent to the rebuilding of the church. Actually, it seems 
obvious that these facts are related to the negotiations with the Byzantines 
which al-Zahir conducted towards the end of his life and which reached 
their conclusion after his death. It appears that most of the assistance came 
during the reign of Constantine IX Monomachus (who ascended the 
throne in 1042). 56 

[717] The assistance from the West referred to above began to assume 
greater proportions in the eleventh century. Towards the end of the ninth 
century, we already find the instance of the dedication of agricultural 
property in the village of Arisa, donated by Hugo of Tuscany and his wife 
Julitta (her real name was probably Juditha) to the Church of the Holy 
Sepulchre. The date of the dedication was 29 October 993. The property 
included twenty-four houses as well as lands and various dependencies. 
When Hungary became a Catholic country, another Latin factor was 
added to the donors to the Holy Land. In 1002, Stephen, king of Hungary, 
established a monastery in Jerusalem, which was to be devoted to the care 

56 See Dhahabl, Ta’rtkh , on margin of Ibn Miskawayh, II, 221; Baumstarck, Bauten, 16f (he 
notes that in the restoration work, they refrained from repairing the roof of the church of 
Constantine, as it was too large). On the restoration of the Church of the Resurrection, the 
major source is William of Tyre, 19f. See also; Yahya ibn Sa'id (Cheikho), 228, 270f. The 
matter of the considerable assistance from Byzantium is also confirmed by Bar Hebraeus 
(Bedjan), 219, (Budge), 196; according to whom the ‘king of the Romans’ sent the noblest 
of the kingdom with an enormous amount of silver and gold, and they restored the church 


480 



AID AND RECONSTRUCTION [SECS. 714-718] 


of the Latin pilgrims. He granted this monastery a foundation consisting 
of farm lands and vineyards. Another Latin endowment is dated 1053: 
Odilus, son of Rudolph, de comitatu Rudense (Rouergue) ‘was inspired by 
God’ when he went on pilgrimage, to dedicate a tenth of his property to 
the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, for the exaltation of his soul after his 
death and the exaltation of the soul of his wife Cecilia, of his father 
Rudolph, and others. According to the document, the patriarch ofjerusa- 
lem, Sophronius, was the person who received the donation. A short time 
before the Crusades, in 1083-1085, people of the Albigeois in southern 
France (Tarn), set up trusts for ‘the hostel in Jerusalem and the paupers in 
the hostel’ (ad honorem et pauperibus hospitalis Ierosolimitani ); these trusts 
were established through the mediation of Anselinus; the man in charge of 
the Jerusalem hostel, Aldegarius; and the bishop of Albi. 57 

[718] The story of the people of Amalfi forms a special chapter in the 
saga of assistance from the West. The merchants of this southern Italian 
city maintained excellent relations with the Fatimid authorities, as they 
played an important part in maritime trade with Egypt. In the latter half of 
the eleventh century, they received licence from Caliph al-Mustansir to 
put up a monastery, a church, a hospital and two hostels, one for men and 
the other for women, in front of the Church of the Resurrection. They 
carried out this project and the monastery was called Sancta Maria de 
Latina. They also built hostels for pilgrims and an oratorium which they 
dedicated to the memory of John ‘the generous’ (Eleymon), a man of 
Cyprus who became patriarch of Alexandria (and who died on 23 January 
616). Heyd doubts the tradition that ascribes the establishment of the 
monastery in the name of‘the Latin Mary’ to the people of Amalfi, for this 
monastery is already mentioned in the deed of dedication of Hugo of 
Tuscany from the year 993. Riley-Smith tried to prove that the monastery 
was built above the hostel built by Pope Gregorius I, in 603; and further¬ 
more, that the original guardian saint of the hostel and the prayer- 
hut attached to it was John the Baptist, and that it was the Hospitallers 
who changed it to John the Generous, and that the monastery and the 
adjacent hostel were afterwards the birthplace of their order, the Knights 
of St John, though it is possible that the order stemmed from a military 

as it had been beforehand; this occurred, he says, in 427 of the hijra, AD 1036; see further: 
Riant, AOL , 1(1881), 52, n. 9, containing a list of sources. 

5’ Martene, amplissima collectio, I, 347ff; Riant, MAIBL, 31(1884), 158-162 {ibid., 168f, he 
doubts the authenticity of the document - but not the information on the dedication - and 
assumes that it is a copy and not the original, containing alterations from the original 
version); see also Berliere, Revue benedictine, 5(1888), 446; Brehier, L’eglise, 30f. who has 
further details on dedications for the Church of the Holy Sepulchre; Heyd, Histoire, I, 104; 
the Hungarians: Vita Stephani, MGH (SS), XI, 227-235; Riant (above, in this note), 165; 
Odilus: Martene, Thesaurus, I, 176f. (cf. Riant, ibid., 157). The people of Tarn: Saige, 
Bibliotheque, 25 (1864), 554ff, 


481 



THE CHRISTIANS 


organisation. Evidently, the Maurus family (de Comite Maurone) were at 
the centre of the activities of these Amalfians in Jerusalem. Maurus and his 
sons, especially Pantaleone, were extremely rich merchants who had 
accumulated their wealth from trading in the Mediterranean. 58 


Christian pilgrimage 

[719] Throughout the generations, Jerusalem has attracted Christian 
pilgrims. At first, it is true, Christianity spoke of the heavenly Jerusalem 
and berated the importance of the earthly Jerusalem, in which it saw the 
erroneous ways and digression of the Jews. However, after the Roman- 
Byzantine empire became a Christian one, interest in the holy places in 
Jerusalem and elsewhere in Palestine gradually increased, particularly with 
regard to those places connected with the life of Jesus and the early 
Christian saints. When Jerusalem fell to the Muslims, an element of 
adventure and danger was added to the act of pilgrimage and a sort of 
romanticism developed, based on the desire to see the holy places and to 
pray within their range, despite the hardships and hazards involved. There 
was also the wish to be pardoned for one’s sins, particularly for the act of 
murder, and the Holy Sepulchre and the other sites where Christian saints 
had met their fate, or in which holy relics were kept, were thought to be 
particularly suitable for this purpose. 59 

58 William of Tyre, RHC (Occ.), I, 30ff; Marinus Sanctus, Liber secretorum, 178; De pritna 
institutione , RHC (Occ.), V, 401f; Aime, L’ystoire , 231 (= Storia, 341f); De Funes, Coro- 
nica, I, If (all these and their like copied from William of Tyre); Strehlke, Zeitschriji fir 
christliche Archaeologie und Kunst, 2(1858), 118f; Guarmani, Cl’Italiani, 17, 20 (who mis¬ 
takenly assumes that the building projects of the Amalfians belong to the first quarter of 
the century); Saige (see the previous note), 552f; Berliere (see the previous note), 505; 
Riant, MAIBL , 31(1884), 157f; Citarella, Speculum, 42(1967), 311, n. 85; Riley-Smith, 
Knights, 35; on the remains of buildings of the Amalfians in Jerusalem (in the Muristan), 
see: Schick, PEFQ, 1902:42; on the Maurus family, see, apart from the aforementioned 
article of Strehlke also: Schwarz, Amalfi, 56f. On John the Generous see: SaTd ibn Bitriq, I, 
217f; see also: Schonborn, Sophrone, 71, n. 67; according to him this John died on 11 
November 620; the patriarch Sophronius (known from the time of the Muslim conquest) 
wrote his biography. 

59 See Runciman, in the History of the Crusades (Setton), I, 68, who finds that to a certain 
extent the desire to see the holy places in Palestine derived from Jewish influence; a rather 
strange view. In the continuation, ibid., he speaks of the interruption of transport and 
maritime trade for a few centuries after the Muslim conquest, and as a result, also of 
pilgrimages — which is not proven and has no foundation; for we have the evidence of 
Arculf, Willibald and others, whom he mentions himself. Labande, CCM, 1(1958), 164, 
tries to stress the difference between two types of pilgrims: the one who comes to 
Jerusalem out of piety and the other to earn fame and respect for daring to venture on such 
a difficult journey. See the general description and discussions on the subject: Grabois, in 
Ha-yam ha-tikhon: 68; see what he writes on the drive forward given to the pilgrimage 
movement from the West by Charlemagne’s idea of the empire, which was based on the 
revival of Biblical statehood and accompanied by a widespread cultural-religious awak¬ 
ening. See the general survey on the Christian pilgrimages: Leclercq, DACL, XIV, 150ff. 


482 



CHRISTIAN PILGRIMAGE [SECS. 719-727] 


[720] One may assume - and what has been said on Christian pilgrimage 
in the Muslim sources which have been preserved supports this - that most 
of the pilgrims did not come from the West. However, the Byzantine 
documents have been lost in the main while in the West, much has 
remained on this subject in the chronicles of the Middle Ages. One should 
keep this in mind and understand that for this very reason, the scene as 
portrayed in the sources and in the work of modern scholars as well, is 
unavoidably distorted. Pilgrims from the West were but a tiny stream 
added to the continuous flow of pilgrims to Jerusalem from the East, 
including Byzantium; we have seen something of this in the traditions on 
the visits of the emperors and nobility of Byzantium to the Holy City. 
Indeed, here and there some details on certain pilgrims from the East have 
been preserved. Jibrll ibn ‘Ubaydallah b. Bukhtlshu', a Christian phys¬ 
ician from Baghdad, was said to have made a pilgrimage to ‘the land of the 
temple (ard al-maqdis), he fasted one fast there, and from there proceeded to 
Damascus’. The mother superior of a Jerusalem nunnery writes to a 
woman in Egypt, who had visited Palestine and passed through Ramla, 
saying ‘I ask Christ’s mercy that I should see your face in this holy place, 
facing the Temple Mount’. 60 

[721] I shall now survey the sources which mention Latin pilgrims. As I 
have already stated, we have a relatively large number of details about 
them. We shall see that the descriptions ofjourneys have preserved merely 
short accounts, a dry summary of chiefly names and dates, and a few 
details concerning the routes of the journey. Some pilgrims travelled 
eastward to Constantinople (mostly through Hungary, especially from 
the beginning of the eleventh century, after the Christianisation of the 
country) and from there overland; and there were those pilgrims who 
sailed from one of the ports (generally from Italy) and reached Alexandria 
or Tyre or Jaffa. The journey by land was preferably made riding on a 
mule, or in the language of the time - a bourdon (compare this with the 
Arabic: birdhawn). Another aspect worth stressing here is the attitude of 
the Muslims towards the pilgrims. Here and there, we hear of harassment 
and of their arrest, which would generally end with the extraction of large 


It is also worth mentioning the work of Rohricht, Die Deutschen itn Heiligen Lande, on the 
German pilgrims. According to him, there were six pilgrimages from Germany in the 
ninth century; eleven in the tenth, and thirty-nine in the eleventh. 

60 The Baghdad physician: Ibn al-Qiftl, 150; Ibn Abl Usaybi'a, I, 146f. The abbess of the 
monastery: Anawati et Jomier, Melanges islatnologiques , 2(1954), 92; the editors read dayr 
hinda but this reading does not seem correct; perhaps dayr al-samiyya was written there, 
which is a monastery mentioned in the ‘guide of Palestine’ (see: 2, b, p. 1, line 10); the 
writer did not return to Egypt, contrary to the opinion of the editors. As the letter is 
written on papyrus, it appears to be a comparatively early document, but it is impossible 
to establish the exact date. 


483 



THE CHRISTIANS 


bribes, which is particularly marked in a story quoted below, of the 
pilgrimage of the monk Bernard. As noted, the matter of payment to 
enter a city and especially Jerusalem is also mentioned, and we find 
mention of this in the Geniza documents as well (see sections 
249-251). 

In ca. 750, bishop Madelveus, of Verdun in France, made a pilgrimage 
to Jerusalem. He made his way through Greece, and from there went by 
sea to Jaffa and then on to Jerusalem. It was said that he returned home 
with many relics of the saints which he received from the patriarch and 
with a hand-wrought crystal urn. In around 850, St Elia of Castrogiovanni 
in Sicily, a man with a stormy past, stayed injerusalem for three years. His 
parents had fled from Castrogiovanni to the citadel of St Mary on the 
island, out of fear of the Arabs, but the citadel was also captured by the 
Arabs after some years. He was taken captive, but some Christians who 
were with the victors’ forces (who came from North Africa) ransomed 
him. In mid-sea, he encountered a Byzantine ship which returned him to 
his family. He fell captive again and became the slave of a Christian from 
Africa, and afterwards the slave of a rich landowner, with whom his status 
grew until he became well known as a saint and healer, and then, as stated, 
he went on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem. From the ninth century, we also 
know of the journey ofFrotmund, a French aristocrat, who is said to have 
left Rome on 29 September 855, and reached Egypt by sea, finally arriving 
injerusalem after three years, in 858. Bernard the monk was more or less 
his contemporary. He left via Bari, which was then under Muslim control, 
equipped with letters from the sultan ( suldanum ) of the place, permitting 
him to sail (with a description of his appearance for purposes of identifi¬ 
cation) to Taranto in Apulia, and to sail further on from there. On board 
the ships anchored in the port at that time, there were thousands of 
Christian captives taken by the Muslims in southern Italy who were to be 
taken to North Africa, according to him. After thirty days on board ship, 
they arrived in Alexandria, and there he was only allowed to disembark 
after paying six gold coins (dinars) to the controller of the port. The sultan 
of Alexandria demanded an additional thirteen dinars for a letter of rec¬ 
ommendation to the authorities in Fustat, where he appeared before an 
official named ‘Abd al-Hakam, sitting there in jail for six days despite the 
letters of recommendation he carried with him. After paying thirteen 
dinars there too, he received a travel document stating that no one could 
demand of him further sums. Nevertheless, he still had to pay a dinar or 
two at the gates of every city he entered. In Fustat, he sailed northward on 
the Nile to the Delta region, to Mahalla, Damietta, Tinnls, and from there 
to Farama (which is Pelusion) through northern Sinai and al-‘Arish to 


484 



CHRISTIAN PILGRIMAGE [SECS. 719-727] 

Gaza. In Jerusalem, he stayed in a hostel established on Charlemagne’s 
orders. 61 

[722] From around 900, there is an account of the pilgrimage of Coun¬ 
tess Adelinda of Swabia, made after her three sons were killed. On her 
return from Jerusalem, she devoted the rest of her days to spiritual 
matters. In 970, Judith, the grandmother of the emperor Henry II (Saint), 
together with a large party of ladies of the court, made a pilgrimage to 
Jerusalem - just when the Fatimid wars in Palestine were at their fiercest. 
At the same time, Hidda, the mother of Gero, the bishop of Cologne, and 
sister of Siegfrid and Vito, was also in Jerusalem. In 988, Gontier, the 
abbot of the St Aubin monastery in Angers, also went on a pilgrimage, 
and in 990, Adalpert, the bishop of the Slavs, was given hospitality in the 
monastery of Monte Cassino when he came on pilgrimage to Jerusalem. 
In 992, Adso, the abbot of the Benedictine monastery in Lotharingia, also 
came as a pilgrim to Jerusalem. He died on board a ship on his way to 
Egypt. One must also mention the chief monastery in Cluny, established 
by William (Guillaume) I, Count of Aquitaine, which was for some 
decades the organising centre for pilgrims. 62 

[723] In 1002 or 1003, the Count of Anjou, Foulque Nerra, went on a 
pilgrimage; he repeated it in 1008. In the same period, we learn of a great 
pilgrimage of Normans - some forty Norman pilgrims are mentioned on 
their return fromjerusalem. In around 1016, Simon of Syracuse (in Sicily), 
one of the most famous Christian personalities of his time, made a pil¬ 
grimage. For some time afterwards, he was a monk in the Sinai before 
returning to Europe. He was one of the outstanding representatives of the 
Norman Church during that period, when the relations between By¬ 
zantium and the Normans were at their worst. The Byzantines began to 

61 On the bourdon see: Labande, CCM, 1(1958), 339. The bishop ofVerdun: Gesla episcoporutn 
Virdunemium, MGH( SS), IV, 43f; Elia, see: Gay, L’ltaliemeridronale, 255f. Frotmund: AA 
SS, October, X, 24th of the month, 847f; cf. Runciman, m History of the Crusades (Setton), 
I, 73 (contrary to his view, one cannot learn from this how long the journey usually took; 
the man certainly stopped on the way of his own accord, before reaching Jerusalem). 
Bernard: in Tobler et Molinier, I, 310-314. Cf. Brehier, L’egtise, 31ff, with additional 
details on famous pilgrims in the tenth century and the beginning of the eleventh century. 

62 Adelinda, see Quellen (1856), 629 (from the chronicle ofHerimannus Augiensis, Hermann 
of Reichenau). Judith: Riant, MAIBL, 31 (1884), 166; she was duchess of Bavaria, 
sister-in-law of Otto I. Hidda: Thietmari Chronicon , MGH(SS), III, 751; Annalista Saxo, 
ibid., VI, 619 (Gero was archbishop of Cologne from 969, and died on 28 June 976). 
Gontier, see: Halphen, Anjou , 245; Adalpert: Chronicon Mon. Casinensis, MGH( SS), 
VII, 640; Adso, see: Widrici vita Sancti Gerardi, ibid., IV, 488. See more details on pilgrims 
to Jerusalem in the tenth century: Riant, MAIBL, 31(1884), 166f, and in his wake, 
Runciman (see previous note), 73f: Hilda, Countess of Swabia, in 969. Counts from 
Vienna and from the following: Ardeche, Arcy, Anhalt, Verdun, Gorizia and Church 
dignitaries: the bishop of Olivola (in Piedmont) in 920; abbots of the monasteries of 
Aurillac, St Cybar, Fla vigny; St Conrad, bishop of Konstanz, went on a pilgrimage to 
Jerusalem three times and St John, bishop of Parma, six times. 


485 



THE CHRISTIANS 


harass the pilgrims from the West (who came via Italy and through 
Byzantine lands) and they would intercept them and imprison them in 
Constantinople. The Norman count Richard II (the great-grandfather of 
William the Conqueror of England, 996-1026) fled to Jerusalem to escape 
the anger of Canute, king of Denmark and England (because of family 
affairs), together with 700 pilgrims, according to one of the sources. 63 

[724] In around 1025, Werinharius (who is Werner) preferred to go on a 
pilgrimage to Jerusalem when the emperor Conrad II wanted to send him 
as his envoy to Constantinople, but he did not succeed in fulfilling his 
ambition and died on the way on 14 April 1028. William Engolismensis 
(that is, man of Angouleme) passed through Bavaria on his way to the 
Holy Sepulchre, in 1026, together with a large group of Church dignitar¬ 
ies and noblemen. Stephen, the king of Hungary, received him with great 
pomp. They set out on 1 October 1026 and reached Jerusalem in the first 
week of March 1027, staying there until the third week of June, that is, 
more than three months. Adhemar de Chabannes, author of the famous 
chronicle on the history of the Franks, came on a pilgrimage in 1034 when 
he was forty-six, and died in Jerusalem. At the start of the forties of that 
same century, it was recorded that the bishops Benno II of Osnabriick and 
William of Strasbourg went on a pilgrimage. In ca. 1045, the praepositus 
Edo went on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem after the archbishop of Hamburg 
dismissed him from his post. Hildegarde, the second wife of the afore¬ 
mentioned Count of Anjou, Foulque Nerra, also went on a pilgrimage to 
Jerusalem, for which she set out on 1 April 1046 with the intention of 
remaining in Jerusalem for the remainder of her life. 64 

63 On Foulque see: Halphen, Anjou, 31 ff; see there also supplement II, pp. 213ffon the same 
subject, and doc. No. 20, on p. 249 (the year 1002/3). The Normans: Chronicon Mon. 
Casinensis, MGH( SS), VII, 65 If. Simon (sometimes called Simon of Treviri, that is Trier): 
Sigeberti, Chronica, ibid., VI, 355; Annalists Saxo, ibid., VI, 570, He died in 1031 (and not 
in 1035, as some believe), that is, more than fifty years before the Normans captured 
Syracuse; Simon, of course, has no connection with this conquest; he was indeed born in 
Syracuse, of an aristocratic Christian family but when he was seven, his parents took him 
to Constantinople and from then on, he did not return to his home town in Sicily but 
worked among the Benedictines in Europe (he was one of the founders of the Order of 
Hospitallers), and spent the last seven years of his life in Trier. Clearly he was called ‘of 
Syracuse’ not because he lived there but because he hailed from there. See further: 
Octavius Caietanus (= Gaietani), Vitae, II, lOlff; Fleury, Histoire, IV(59), 95ff, who has 
details on Simon’s relations with Richard II, Duke of Normandy. The interruption of 
pilgrimages: Adhemar, Histoire, MGH( SS), IV, 140; cf. Gay, L’ltalie meridionale, 404f. 
Richard the Norman: Adatni Gesta, MGH( SS), VII, 325; idem, in Quellen (1961), 292; 
Annalista Saxo, MGH( SS), VI, 689; Hugo Flaviniacensis (Flavigny), ibid., VIII, 394, 
Hugo Floriacensis (Fleury), Regum Francorum actus, ibid., IX, 387 (the editor, ibid.: n. 28; 
the information on Richard is false, as it is not found elsewhere, but this is not correct). Cf. 
Douglas, EHR, 61(1946), 129. 

64 Werner, see: Wipo, Gesta Chuonradi II, Quellen (1961), 578 f and the editor’s note there. 
William: Adhemar, Histoire, MGH( SS), IV, 145f. On Adhemar himself see the in¬ 
troduction to his chronicle, ibid., 108, and in the note; see the article Ademar de Chabannes 


486 



CHRISTIAN PILGRIMAGE [SECS. 719-727] 


[725] People who managed to stay in Jerusalem for some time were 
enveloped by a special sort of aura on their return to Europe, and fre¬ 
quently acquired titles and important posts as a result. One of the perma¬ 
nent confidants of Bishop Adalbert of Bremen was a certain Bovo, a man 
whose origins and past were something of a mystery. He would tell of 
going on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem on three occasions, and that the 
Muslims caught him and brought him to ‘Babel’ (that is, al-Qahira). 
When he was eventually released, he went on a number of journeys and 
visited many countries. A man by the name of Aristo who arrived from 
Jerusalem was appointed to take charge of the church in Ratzeburg on 
behalf of that bishop. He stayed in this post for eleven years, until he was 
ousted from there. 65 

[726] An unusual pilgrimage, both because of its extent and because of 
the turn of events in which it was involved, was that of the group of 
Gunther, bishop of Bamberg, in 1065. According to the sources, 7,000 
men participated in the journey, which included noblemen and bishops 
from southern Germany, among them also Siegfried, bishop of Mainz. 
When they were at a point which was a day’s journey from Ramla, on 15 
March, they were attacked by Arabs. The attack lasted for several days, 
until Easter. At first the members of the convoy did not put up any 
resistance and their situation was desperate. Only when they began to 
defend themselves and even took captives did there seem to be some 
prospect of extricating themselves from this situation, though many of 
them were wounded. They were saved by the amir of Ramla, that is, the 
Fatimid governor, who when he heard of the assault, quickly came to their 
aid. His attitude towards the Bedouin was one of intense hatred, as he saw 
them as rebels against the Fatimid rule, and immediately gave orders for 
them to be arrested and sent to Egypt. Evidently the attack was prompted 
by a desire for plunder, for the bishops did not refrain from displaying 
their wealth. Less than 2,000 of these pilgrims managed to return home 
safely. The chronicle of the English abbot Ingulph may possibly be 
evidence of one of the participants of this pilgrimage, for Ingulph ex¬ 
plicitly mentions that he went on a pilgrimage together with 7,000 men, 
among them thirty horsemen, under the leadership of the bishop of 
Mainz. On their way from Lycia (Lydda?), he says, they were attacked by 
Arab robbers, who robbed them of large sums of money and killed many 
of them. On the return journey they were again attacked, until they 
managed to reach Jaffa. He mentions the patriarch Sophronius (1059- 

(by J. de la Martiniere), in DHGE. The two bishops: Norberti Abbatis, Vita Bennonis II, 

378; Edo, see: Adami, Gesta, MGH( SS), VII, 334; Hildegarde, see: Halphen, Anjou, 11, n. 

1. 

65 Bovo, see: Adam the aforementioned of Bremen, in Quellen (1961), 431. Aristo: ibid., 354. 

487 



THE CHRISTIANS 


1070) in his story, and these events took place before the death of King 
Edward (about whom he speaks in the continuation; he died in 1066) and 
from all the indications, he appears to have been speaking of the same 
pilgrimage. Perhaps the affair of Count Theodoricus, who was exiled by 
the emperor Henry IV because of the murder of the archbishop of Trier, St 
Kuno, was also linked to this pilgrimage, but the dates of this affair are not 
clear. It was said that Theodoricus died during a pilgrimage to Jerusalem. 

There have been scholars who have tried to see this great pilgrimage 
(and there have evidently been more pilgrimages of this kind) as part of a 
large pilgrims’ movement which could be considered a sort of prelude to 
the Crusades. Actually, there is no resemblance between the pilgrimages, 
regardless of how populous they were, and the Crusades. The pilgrimages 
were naturally undertaken by unarmed people, were of a peaceful nature, 
and were expected to be met with tolerance on the part of the Muslim 
rulers. As a matter of fact, Christians continued to go on pilgrimages to 
Jerusalem throughout the centuries following the Muslim conquest. In¬ 
formation concerning harassment, atrocities and the mistreatment of pil¬ 
grims had undoubtedly been going the rounds for generations. It is 
therefore difficult to see any causal connection or even any chain of 
continuity between Gunther’s pilgrimage and the Crusades. 66 

[727] We do not know of many sources on Latin pilgrimages after 
that of Gunther. In 1087/8, we hear of the pilgrimage of Urso, archbishop 
of Bari. Apparently, the latest information (before the Crusades) on 
Christian pilgrimages is to be found in al-‘Azimi, who speaks of the year 
AH 486, which is AD 1093 (when he was three years old). In that year, 
according to him, the people living in the coastal areas of Palestine pre¬ 
vented the Latin (literally: the Franks - al-firanj ) and Byzantine pilgrims 
from going to Jerusalem. Those who survived (clearly implying that there 
had been a massacre) spread the news of what had happened, in their own 

66 Ingulph, 148f. According to the heading on these pages, it seems that the translator-editor 
attributes these events to 1051, but this is not correct; the events are described also in some 
other sources, which are very close to the time of the events: Lambert (or Lampert) of 
Hersenfeld, who wrote in ca. 1075; Lamberti Annales, MGH( SS), V, 168ff (= Lamperti 
Monachi Hersfeldensis Annales, 94fl); Mariani Scotti, Chronicon (a contemporary of the 
aforementioned), ibid., V, 599; Ann. Augustani (Augsburg, an anonymous chronicler and a 
contemporary of the aforementioned), ibid.. Ill, 128; Annales Altahenses (Oefele; written at 
about the same time, in Niederaltaich in Bavaria), 67; one source says that the mass 
pilgrimage was led by Siegfried, bishop of Mainz (Sigefridus Moguntinus) who in fact 
participated in Gunther’s convoy, see Annales Ottenbarani, MGH( SS), V, 6 (Ottobeuren, 
Bavaria). The matter of Theodoricus, see: Annales Wirziburgenses, MGH{ SS), II, 224; 
Bernoldi Chronicon, ibid., V, 429; Annales Hildesheimenses, ibid.. Ill, 105; Sigeberti Chron¬ 
icon, ibid., VI, 362. Cf. on Gunther’s journey: Michaud, Hisloire, I, 34; Riant, AOL, 

1 (1881), 55; see the comprehensive research work on thejourney: Joranson, D. C. Munroe 
Presentation Volume: 3; see further: Brehier, L’eglise, 45ff; Vasiliev, History, 398f; Ross and 
McLaughlin, Medieval Reader, 430-437 (English translation of Lambert’s account). 


488 



CHRISTIAN PILGRIMAGE [SECS. 719-727] 

countries, and he claims that this was the reason why the Christians started 
on their preparations for the campaign which was to become the first 
Crusade. 67 

67 Leib, Rome etc. 80, claims there was a strong wave of pilgrimages during the Saljuq 
period. Urso, see: Prawer, Tarbiz, 45 (1975/6), 281, with references to the sources. See 
al-‘ Azlmi, 369, and see ibid ., 368, the matter of the year of his birth; see ibid ., 430, the editor 
C. Cahen’s comments on the significance of this information, for this is the only instance 
(known to us) of a Muslim source speaking of the connection between the distress of the 
Christian pilgrims and the Crusades. 


489 



8 


The Jewish population and 

ITS LEADERSHIP 

W 


The problematics of Jewish leadership in the Middle Ages 

[728] The question often heard today, generally from elements unfriendly 
to the Jews, as to whether the Jews are a nation or only a religious 
community, did not trouble the Jews of the mediaeval period. They called 
themselves a nation as a matter of course. In recent times, the study of 
society has tried to fit this term into a tight matrix of precise definitions. As 
a matter of fact, however, it is obvious and known to intelligent people 
that the Jews were not for many generations, and are not even today, a 
nation like other nations, owing to a lack of territorial concentration. 
Nevertheless, they were always more of a nation than all those nations 
settled on their own land, due to an awareness of their common fate, their 
internal solidarity, their shared past and their deep cultural roots. All these 
features were characteristic of the Jews for generations, more so than of 
other nations. The strong communal organisation and central institutions 
of leadership preserved the unity of the nation no less than territory may 
have done, and perhaps even more so. 

The unifying spiritual factor was naturally the Torah, which meant a 
common and shared belief in a supreme omnipotent force bearing a special 
relationship to the Jewish people. Apart from this, there was a body of 
customs and laws encompassing every aspect of life, from ritual and the 
routine of daily life to the laws regulating family affairs, inheritance, civil 
litigation, and all the other laws which today pertain to civil law. To the 
ancients, the meaning of dat (generally translated as religion) was primar¬ 
ily the law, as the term is understood in the Bible, a meaning making it 
more or less synonymous with the term Torah. The separate judicial 
system, a network of Jewish courts of judgment, was viewed as the 
buttress and principal focus of the life of the nation. 


490 



PROBLEMATICS OFJEWISH LEADERSHIP [SEC. 728] 


Included within the same framework of strong communal organisation 
were also the developed institutions of mutual aid: the heqdesh, the concern 
for the poor, for the stranger and for the ransom of captives. The Jewish 
population was utterly dependent on its surroundings, subject to the need 
to maintain its physical existence and livelihood within a regime in which a 
ruler could within seconds arbitrarily confer life or death. Thejews were a 
part of the general economic system and were in daily contact with their 
non-Jewish surroundings, but they were nevertheless self-centred. 
Though they took on the outward signs of Muslim culture by way of 
language, manners and even dress, an enormous chasm lay between the 
two worlds in everything concerning their Weltanschauung and daily cus¬ 
toms. A marked indication of this isolation was the severity with which 
they observed the principle of not applying to Muslim courts in civil 
matters, such as inheritances, and the like. We have already seen some 
instances of excommunication of people who applied to a Muslimjudgein 
order to achieve different conditions from those which could be expected 
from the Jewish courts. 

It should be clear that in speaking of thejews in the diaspora during the 
early Middle Ages, I am referring first of all to Jews of the Muslim world, 
for it was in this world that the greater part of the Jewish people lived - in 
countries where they had lived in ancient and crowded localities for 
centuries before the Muslim conquest: Palestine, Persia, Babylonia, Syria, 
Egypt, North Africa and Spain. The Jews outside the borders of Islam 
were to be found mainly in Byzantium, that is, in Asia Minor, in Constan¬ 
tinople, Greece, Rome and southern Italy. The Jewish communities of 
Western Europe, at that time the barbarian and most backward part of the 
continent, were small and insignificant. Hence it is not incidental that 
the historical sources of that period called the ‘period of the geonim’, all 
stem from the Orient - from Babylonia, Palestine, Egypt or North 
Africa. 

How were those hundreds of communities, spread throughout that part 
of the world, organised? From what did they derive their inner strength 
and to whom did they look for guidance in times of perplexity and 
distress? Who did they turn to when they needed someone to pass judg¬ 
ment on those difficult problems that arise between fellow-men or be¬ 
tween man and his social context, and were unable to find a solution? 
From the sources of that period, we learn that the Jewish people main¬ 
tained no less than four central authorities within their midst: the exilarch 
in Babylonia, two yeshivot in Babylonia - in Sura and Pumbedita - and 
the Palestinian yeshiva. How were their powers divided and who had the 
supreme authority? Under the influence of ideas created in more recent 


491 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

periods, there is a tendency to view the exilarch as having been the 
supreme authority, bearing some of the attributes of a secular authority 
and whose major concerns were of a socio-political nature, as dis¬ 
tinguished from the yeshivot, which were mainly occupied with religious 
matters. This seemed to students of Jewish history to be the case in 
T almudic times (during the era of Rome and Persia) and during the Middle 
Ages. However, this was not quite so. From the story of Nathan the 
Babylonian it emerges that the division of power was not at all vertical, 
but rather horizontal - or one may say, geographic. 

The exilarch and his court exercised their authority over the communi¬ 
ties east of the Tigris, that is, the communities of Persia: ‘Nahrwan and all 
its surroundings .. . Hulwan’; the son of the exilarch David b. Zakkai 
‘went out to the land of Persia which is under the authority of his father’; 
and also: ‘... from Persia which is his father’s domain and from all its 
surroundings’. Indeed, we are familiar with the exilarchs from the Tal¬ 
mud, and with their lineage from King David. According to their genea¬ 
logical lists, Jehoiachin, the king whom Nebuchadnezzar banished, was 
the first exilarch. The Babylonian Talmud expounds on them on the basis 
of Genesis (xlix) in the blessing of Jacob: ‘[The sceptre shall not depart 
from Judah] which means the exilarchs of Babylonia, who tyrannise Israel 
with (their) sceptre’ (BT, Sanhedrin, 5a). Reliable information credits the 
exilarch with having acquired a very high and revered status from the 
Persian rulers before Islam. At the time of the Muslim conquest, the 
exilarch Bustanai stood at the head of the Jewish population in the Persian 
kingdom and actively participated in the war against the Muslims, along¬ 
side the Persian king and army. The Muslim era brought about a sharp 
decline in the status of the exilarchs. This process stemmed chiefly from 
internal developments and quarrels within the exilarchic family. It seems 
that one of the early manifestations of this process was the secession of 
‘Anan, a member of the family, who cut off his relationship with the 
yeshivot and started a faction of his own. There also seems to have been a 
fierce controversy between two branches of the descendants of Bustanai, 
who was exilarch at the time of the conquest. The Muslim conquerors 
gave him a present of one of the daughters of the Persian king they had 
taken captive. She gave birth to three sons apart from those he had had by 
his Jewish wife. In later generations, there were claims that the offspring of 
the Persian wife were not legally qualified - so they claimed - for Bustanai 
had not converted her to Judaism and hence her offspring were not Jewish 
at all. A serious rift continued for generations on the score of these claims. 
Internal schisms, reservations, and rivalry on the part of the scholars of the 


492 



PROBLEMATICS OFJEWISH LEADERSHIP [SEC. 728] 

yeshivot, and not necessarily the intervention of the authorities, were the 
cause of the decline of the exilarchate, for the Muslims actually treated the 
exilarchic house with respect, knowing that the Jews viewed the exilarchs 
as descendants of King David, who had his honourable place in Islamic 
tradition as a prophet. 

The Jewish masses naturally felt a great deal of affection for the exilarch, 
seeing in him, as we have seen, a scion of the House of David. They truly 
believed in this ancestry and would customarily call a member of the 
exilarchic family: al-Da’udi— ‘the Davidian’. Nevertheless, this fact did not 
keep the yeshivot from fighting with the exilarch, at times bitterly. We 
know of enormous rifts of this kind, particularly in the tenth century, but 
there is no reason to believe that there were not similar quarrels at other 
times as well, and there is more than a hint of this in the famous letter of 
Sherira Gaon. Division from without and within thus caused the eventual 
loss of status suffered by the exilarchs, as Sherira Gaon puts it in his letter: 
‘at the outset of the days of the Ishmaelites the exilarchs possessed harsh 
authority and much power’, but ‘in the middle of the Ishmaelites’ days, at 
the time of David b. Zakkai the nasi, they were abased through the king’s 
authority’. And in another source, Samuel b. ‘All’s letter (of the twelfth 
century): ‘they were dismissed from serving the rulers’. In the course of 
time, there were instances of descendants of the exilarchic house emigrat¬ 
ing westward; some of them reaching Palestine, Egypt and even the 
Maghrib. Below I shall discuss those sources in the Geniza documents that 
refer to their involvement in public affairs in Palestine, especially in the 
eleventh century. 

The Babylonian yeshivot, like the exilarch, had their roots in ancient 
times, as we know. Nathan the Babylonian, whose object seems to have 
been to tell his listeners - evidently in Qayrawan - about Babylonian 
affairs, spoke only of the Babylonian yeshivot, Sura and Pumbedita. A 
mediaeval source expounds on them (according to Micah, iv:10): ‘for now 
shalt thou go forth out of the city, and thou shalt dwell in the field, and 
thou shalt go even to Babylon; there shalt thou be delivered’, as follows: 
‘for oral law is given to the sages of the Babylonian yeshiva, and the details 
of the commandments are kept by those sages, which are not teachings 
[invented] by their hearts or by their wisdom .. .’ (that is, the origin of the 
teachings is divine). 

Sura lay in southern Iraq while Pumbedita was further to the north, 
close to the Euphrates. Nathan the Babylonian describes their disposition: 
seventy elders sat in the yeshiva, among them the head of the yeshiva and 
second to him the av-bet-din (head of the court). They would sit in rows of 
ten, and at the head of each row sat a rosh kalla, which meant head of the 


493 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

row; each of these seven dignitaries of the yeshiva was also called aliif. The 
head of the yeshiva was called gaon. Nathan the Babylonian claims that at 
first only the head of Sura bore the title Gaon, but he may have been 
biassed in favour of this yeshiva. The yeshivot usually called themselves 
yeshivatge’dn ya'aqov, both in Babylonia and in Palestine. Apparently this 
by-name had its origins in Ps., xlvii:4: ‘He shall choose our inheritance for 
us, the excellency of Jacob [ge’dn ya'aqov] whom He loved. ’ Evidently the 
title Gaon (excellency in English) was an abbreviation of ‘Head of the 
yeshivat ge’dn ya'aqov’. The seven row masters went by the name of dard 
qamrnd, or dard rahbd (the first, or great row); in Pumbedita, it was the row 
of the Neharde‘e (people of Neharde‘a), evidently named after the place 
where the yeshiva had been located before it moved to Pumbedita. The 
geonim heading the Babylonian yeshivot behaved like royalty; before 
their sermons the reader would proclaim in a ceremonial manner: ‘hearken 
ye to what the head of the yeshiva has in mind to say!’ 

The yeshivot of Sura and Pumbedita directed the affairs of the many 
Jewish communities in the diaspora, also outside the confines of Persia and 
Babylonia, especially among those ‘Babylonian’ communities which had 
sprung up in the West as a result of the mass migration ofjews westward 
from Iraq. This also applied to the ancient local communities in North 
Africa and Spain, which evidently recognised the superior quality of the 
learning and wisdom of the Babylonian yeshivot. Sura, the older of the 
two, enjoyed greater prestige than the yeshiva of Pumbedita for many 
generations but this seems to have changed in the tenth century, particu¬ 
larly after the death of Saadia Gaon, head of the Sura yeshiva in 942. The 
Babylonian yeshivot were maintained by regular taxes paid them by the 
Jews of Babylonia; the exilarch too was paid. In addition, a stream of 
donations would reach them from the diaspora, together with queries on 
matters of law issued both from study and from matters of practical 
decisions, in which local courts would apply to the Babylonian 
yeshivot. 

Before embarking on a discussion of the fourth authority, that is, the 
Palestinian yeshiva, I should note that the leadership of the diaspora was a 
pluralistic one - that is, the four authorities existed alongside one another, 
without reaching a schismatic situation, although there were many differ¬ 
ences on various issues and competition between one another, which were 
at times expressed with intense bitterness. There were periods when the 
reputation of one would override that of the other, but there was always at 
least one central authoritative body by which the communities in the 
diaspora abided. These institutions were active for many generations - for 
more than a thousand years — and not a little of that inner strength of the 


494 



THE PALESTINIAN YESHIVA IN ANCIENT SOURCES [SECS. 729-738] 

Jewish communities and their capacity to withstand waves of enmity and 
the temptation to assimilate lay inherent in their existence. 1 


The Palestinian yeshiva in ancient sources 

[729] Owing to the Geniza documents, we now know that the Pal¬ 
estinian yeshiva (the Sanhedrin) continued to exist, evidently uninterrupt¬ 
edly, from the days of the Second Temple until the period under 
discussion here, and that during this period, it still assumed the leadership 
of the Jews of Palestine and also of some of the Jewish communities 
outside Palestine. 

Brief information on the Palestinian yeshiva is to be found in Seder ‘clam 
zuta (‘the small order of the world’): ‘Mar Zutra b. Mar Zutra the exilarch 
went up to Palestine and was admitted as rosh pereq. It is in the year 452 
from the destruction of the Temple, which is the year 4280 of the creation 
[that is: AD 520] that he went up to Palestine, and became [there] head of 
the Sanhedrin. ’ In the various versions of this chronicle, another eight to 
thirteen names of Mar Zutra’s successors are mentioned, the last being that 
of Rav Hasuv, the son of Rav Pinhas or his grandson. One may evidently 
assume that Mar Zutra was at first rosh pereq and afterwards, head of the 
Palestinian yeshiva. In other words, one of the descendants of the exilarch 
in Babylonia became head of the Sanhedrin of Palestine. Below we shall 
see that it is not an isolated occurrence and that we know of three other 
descendants of exilarchs who became geonim in Palestine: Jehoshaphat 
and Semah, sons of Josiah, and Daniel b. Azariah. 2 

! See the account of Nathan the Babylonian on the division of the Babylonian authorities and 
their organisation and activities, in Neubauer, Med.]. Chron. II, 85ff. Sherira Gaon on the 
exilarchs: ibid., I, 33. The letter of Samuel b. ‘All: Assaf, Tarbiz, 1(2) (1929/30), 67 (fol. 
30b). See the midrash on Micah ch. iv (from Pirkoy b. Baboy) in Lewin, Tarbiz, 
2(1930/31), 402f, Cf. Mann, Tarbiz, 6(1933/4), 78f. On the name yeshwatge’on ya'aqdv, see 
Harkavy’s note (19) in Graetz (Hebrew), Ill, 128; see further: Zunz, Die gottesdienstlicken 
Vortrdge, 178, n. a; Sh. Rapoport, Kerern Itemed, 4(1838/9), 225, in the note; Poznanski, 
Review of Ginzberg’s Geonica.JQR, NS 3(1912/3), 408; see on the use of this name in the 
Pumbedita yeshiva: Harkavy, Teshiivot, Nos. 198, 200 (pp. 88, 90). Salmon b. Yeruhim, 
the Karaite commentator of the tenth century, claims that ge’on ya'aqov means Jerusalem, 
while interpreting Ps., xlvii:5: ‘when He says ge’dn ya'aqdv He means Jerusalem in 
particular, since this is how He called it when He said: 1 will profane my sanctuary (i.e. the 
Temple, Jerusalem), the excellency (ge’on) of your strength’ (Ezek., xxiv:21); see the 
Marwick ed., 20. A detailed discussion on the matters of Babylonia will be published by me 
elsewhere, hence 1 have limited myself to only a few references here. 

2 Indeed, in the Codex Theodosianus (xvi- 8-22, 29) orders are recorded of the years 415 and 
429, abolishing the office of the Nasi (Gamaliel III) and the yeshivot of Palestine: in 
urtriusque Palestinae synedriis (evidently meaning thejewish courts); but the Sanhedrin was 
alive and well in the six'th century, as we shall see below, and it is completely inconcei vable 
that thejewish population in Palestine in fact submitted to these orders. See the account of 
Seder 'olatn zuta in: Neubauer, Mediaeval Jewish Chronicles, II, 69-73, and the Hebrew 
version ibid., 76ff. There is also a version saying that the exilarch went up to Jerusalem 


495 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

[730] Syriac sources which describe the events in the southern part of the 
Arabian peninsula, when the Jewish king Joseph (his real name according 
to inscriptions was Yusuf Asar; Dhu Nu’as in the Arab chronicles, Masruq 
in the Syriac sources) started persecuting the Christians and the Mono- 
physites in his realm, Himyar, particularly in Najran, mention the ‘Jewish 
priests of Tiberias’. They were the driving force behind the king’s per¬ 
secution of the Christians. This occurred at about the same time as the 
aforementioned arrival of Mar Zutra in Palestine, that is, around AD 520. 3 

[731] The Targum (homiletic translation, Aramaic) of the Song of 
Solomon, made during the Byzantine era, tells us (The Song of Solomon, 
vii:[2]3: ‘Thy navel is like a round goblet [of the moon]... ’) ‘the head of 
your yeshiva, from whose grace [with God] all the people are at a gain, just 
as a fetus gains from his navel in the belly of his mother. He shines in [his 
knowledge of the] Torah just like the goblet of the moon ... and seventy 
sages surround him like a round barn. Their treasuries become full from 
the holy tithes and the vows and donations allotted to them by Ezra the 
priest and by Zerubbabel ... and by the people of the Great Assembly’. 
This is an obvious reference to the Palestinian yeshiva as well as an explicit 
statement on the Jews’ obligation to support it. 

Immediately after the Muslim conquest, in theJewish-Christian polem¬ 
ical tract which I have already mentioned above, ‘the Didaskalia ofjacob 
the recently baptised’, the Jewish participants in the argument mention 
‘our priest in Tiberias’. 4 

[732] Sherira Gaon mentions in his letter a serious struggle over the 
office ofexilarch in around the year 825, which he calls the ‘controversy of 
Daniel and David’ but the letter contains no details concerning the contro¬ 
versy. A Syriac Christian source, however, has more information. It 
attributes the rift to the people of Tiberias on the one hand and the 
Babylonians on the other; the former supported David, while the latter 
supported Daniel, who was of the ‘Ananite sect, ‘those who profane the 

(ibid., 76, n. 14), but one cannot rely on this as the seat of the Sanhedrin was then in 
Tiberias. See on the manuscripts of this chronicle and on its first printed editions (Mantua 
1514, Basle 1527, Venice 1545, Basle 1580, etc.) in Lazarus, Jahrbiicher (Briill), 10(1890), 
157ff (in the appendix). The Hebrew translation, by Abraham Zacuto, was written ca. 
1505, and included in his Sefer yuhasin , printed in 1566 by Samuel Shulam; see the 
Filipowski edition (London 1857) according to the Bodleian MS 2202, the only MS to have 
been preserved, pp. 91ff. There are also versions which give the date of Mar Zutra’s 
immigration to Palestine as 522; cf: Marx. /QR, NS 1(1910/1), 68; Mann, Jews, I, 58f, in the 
note. On the title rash ha-pereq see below, sec. 742. 

3 See the letter of Simon of Bet Arsham: Schroter, ZDMG, 31(1877), 361ff; cf. Hirschberg, 
Israel ba-'arau, 88ff, and the matter of the ‘leaders of the priests of Tiberias’, ibid, 90; Ketava 
de-himyare (Moberg), in the MS fol. 7a, line 2; cf. Hirschberg. ibid., 84; see also idem in Sefer 
Zikkaron (Vienna), 113. 

4 See a slightly different version in the Sperber edition of the Targum. Cf. Landauer, Noldeke 
Jubilee Volume, 506 (who tries to prove that the Targum was written in the Muslim period. 


496 



THE PALESTINIAN YESHIVA IN ANCIENT SOURCES [SECS. 729-738] 


sabbath and keep Wednesday [instead]’. It is difficult to see any connection 
between that controversy and that barely unknown sect which consecrates 
Wednesday instead of the sabbath, and there must have been some mis¬ 
understanding there. The information concerning the involvement of the 
people of the Palestinian yeshiva (‘the people of Tiberias’) in the contro¬ 
versy over the office of exilarch is certainly credible, however. 5 

[733] In an early version of the yequm purqan prayer, the opening 
blessing has been preserved for ‘our Lords and Masters, the holy as¬ 
semblies [havurot] that are in Palestine and in Babylonia, the rashe kalla, 
and the exilarchs, and heads of the yeshivot and the judges of the courts’. 
This version was first found in the mahzdr of Vitry (in the early twelfth 
century); it was certainly accepted for generations beforehand but was not 
preserved in a more ancient source. 6 

[734] In the Scroll of Ahlma‘a$, where it speaks of the time around 800 of 
the destruction of the Temple, that is 868, ‘a man who came from Pal¬ 
estine’ to Venosa, is described as having ‘stayed there days and weeks and 
would preach a sermon every sabbath’. Silano, the local scholar, who 
explained, or rather translated the sermons, inserted into the translation a 

but he is not convincing); see also; Marx, JQR, NS 1(1910/1), 66. The Didaskalia, see 
Bonwetsch, 77, lines 5—6; Krauss, Zion (ha-me’assef), 2(1927), 28. 

5 See Sherira’s letter in Neubauer, Mediaeval Jewish Chronicles, I, 38; the Syriac source was 
usually quoted from Bar Hebraeus’ chronicle. Bar Hebraeus copied from Michael the 
Syrian, who copied from the chronicle (which is lost) of Dionysius of Tel Mahre, who 
lived during these events. See Michael the Syrian, 517 (text); III, 65 (translation); Bar 
Hebraeus (Abbeloos), 366; cf. Graetz (Hebrew) III, 421; Lazarus, MGWJ, 78(1934), 279, 
and there are Latin translations in both places. Graetz tried to prove that Bar Hebraeus’ 
version is garbled and should read; anbaraye (al-Anbar, which is Pumbedita) instead of 
tiberdye, but this has no foundation; while if there was the same clear evidence in Graetz’ day 
as there is today, of the existence of the Palestinian yeshiva (then in Tiberias) he would not 
have suggested this. 

6 The term rdsh kalla is explained above, and will be discussed in the continuation below. 
Mahzor Vitry (of Simha b. Samuel of Vitry, a pupil of Rashi- 1040-1105), see the Hurwitz 
ed., 172; also Nathan the Babylonian hints at this blessing (see in Neubauer, Mediaeval 
Jewish Chronicles, II, 84); cf. Duschinsky’s article in Poznanski Jubilee Volume: 182. From 
here and also from some other sources, we learn that the term haviird found in the Talmuds, 
is used as a synonym for yeshiva, just as the term haver had the special meaning of scholar, 
man of the yeshiva, as we shall see; the term havurat ha-sedeq is to be found in the piyyut of 
‘the ancient questions’, which will be discussed below, and is a florid nickname for the 
yeshiva in the writer’s day, the 11th century. It can also be found in essd meshdlt of Saadia 
Gaon, and meant there the sages ofjabneh and Usha, as shown by Abramson, Tarbiz, 
32(1962/3), 160f. Many years later, this term, havurat ha-sedeq is still included in a reshut for a 
bridegroom, whose author was Menahem b. Makhir ofRegensburg (see on him: Fleischer, 
SliTrat ha-qodesh, 431; the second half of the twelfth century); ‘the scholars [of the Torah], 
who know how to open and how to close it; . .. heads of the yeshivot and heads of the 
dispersed exiled ones; with the authority of the havurat sedeq, the happy congregation’. See 
also Stern, Berliner Jubilee Volume, 115. It seems that a similar version was also included in 
the qaddish during the Middle Ages, which contained blessings for the leaders, also those of 
the community. ENA 2742, f. 6, has the demand of a muqaddam (in charge of the 
community, see below) that he be included among those blessed in the qaddish; cf. Goitein, 


497 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


rhyme which hinted at a controversy which had arisen among the public in 
Venosa, for which he was banished, until Ahima‘as went up ‘there’ (that is 
to Palestine) ‘with the nedarim’ (the vows). He went up tojerusalem during 
the ‘ten penitentiary days’ and ‘he was reconciled to the haverim and the 
head of the yeshiva and he [was asked] to be the reader’; during the 
prayers, he praised Silano, until the latter was released from the ban. It is 
further stated that Ahima'as went up tojerusalem with the nedarttn three 
times, and on each occasion brought 100 gold coins with him, ‘to bestow 
upon the students of the Torah, and those who mourn [the destruction] of 
the palace of His splendour’. On his third visit, ‘they would sit down and 
dine with the head of the yeshiva and students of the rehdvd' (rehdvd , the 
comprehensive one, meaning Torah). 7 

[735] The yeshiva is also mentioned at the end of a letter from Joseph b. 
Aaron, ‘the king of Togarmah’ (the Khazars) to Hasdai ibn Shaprut: ‘and 
our eyes look toward the Lord our God and to the sages of Israel, the 
yeshiva in Jerusalem and the yeshiva in Babylonia, although we are far 
from Zion’, etc. Yefet b. ‘All, the Karaite commentator of the tenth 
century, also does not refrain from mentioning the Palestinian yeshiva in 
his commentary on Zechariah, v:9 (’... and looked, and behold, there 
came out two women, and the wind was in their wings’, etc.) ‘as to the 
two women, they are the two yeshivot, the one in Palestine and the other 
in Iraq’. 8 

[736] Information on a query from the year 960 has been preserved, in 
which ‘the people of the Rhine ask... the communities of Palestine’ about 
the time of the coming of the Messiah and about a matter of ritual 
slaughter. On the Messiah, an evasive answer is given; as to the other 
matter, the Palestinians quote the responsum of Rav Jacob b. Mordecai, 
head of the Sura yeshiva in the late eighth-early ninth century, and 
conclude with: ‘know ye for true that we do not omit prayers for you on 
the Mount of Olives on all the holidays; and it would befit you to draw 
from the depths of [the tractates] Yevamot and ‘Eruvin’. These last 
comments contain an element of rebuke or ridicule; it seems that this 
responsum too may stem from the Palestinian yeshiva. 9 

Mediterranean Society, III, 245; 480, n. 145; Friedman, Gratz College Annual, 1(1972), 57, n. 
5. 

7 See Megillat Ahima'as, 14, 16f; cf. Klar, Tarbiz, 15(1943/4) 48f. 

8 Mention of the yeshiva in the letter of Joseph, king of the Khazars, see Osar ha-ge’dnim to 
‘Eruvin, 28, and n, 1; cf, Marx, JQR, NS 1 (1910/1), 68, n. 15; his opinion that the mention 
of the Palestinian yeshiva there is the result of the decline of the Sura yeshiva in the tenth 
century does not seem to be correct. Yefet b. 'All: Poznanski, JQR, 18(1906), 245f; cf. 
Marx, ibid., 68f. 

7 Pcrles, H. GraetzJubelscbriJt, 31, copied what is quoted above (ascribed to Isaac b. Dorbelo) 
Irom the MS of‘the small ‘ Arukh’ kept in Bern, from the last page of the MS; see Buchler, 
REJ, 44(1902), 237-243; Marx,_/QR, NS 1 (1910/1), 75; Marx has there parallels from the 


498 



THE PALESTINIAN YESHIVA IN ANCIENT SOURCES [SECS. 729-738] 

[737] Until now, we have examined cursorily some of the information 
on the Palestinian yeshiva, the Sanhedrin, which continued to be active 
from the days of the Second Temple onwards. It is obvious that the 
Palestinian yeshiva, as was also the case with the Babylonian yeshivot, had 
little resemblance to the yeshivot of times nearer our own, which were 
actually schools. During the period under discussion, the three yeshivot 
(the two Babylonian and the one Palestinian; and no one conceived of the 
idea of creating another yeshiva, as we shall see) were centres of lead¬ 
ership, housing councils of scholars, some of whom resided where the 
yeshiva was located and directed it and some of whom were judges and 
communal leaders in various localities, appointed on behalf of the yeshiva, 
its semukhim (the ordained). The sources I have quoted until now are early, 
up to the eleventh century. From now on, we can resort to the Geniza 
documents, which shed so much light on the Palestinian yeshiva, its 
struggles and personalities. The Geniza has also preserved copies of earlier 
sources from the tenth century, writings dealing with the dispute over the 
calendar, between Babylonia and Palestine, containing important data on 
the yeshiva. 10 

[738] At the time of the Muslim conquest, the Palestinian yeshiva was 
situated in Tiberias. As we have seen above, thejews of Tiberias, meaning 
the people of the yeshiva evidently, were those who organised the first 
settlement ofjews in Jerusalem - those seventy families who moved from 
Tiberias and re-established thejerusalemJewish community. We have no 
explicit information as to the date of the transfer of the yeshiva from 
Tiberias to Jerusalem. As we have seen, according to the Syriac Christian 
sources (Dionysius, Michael the Syrian, Bar Hebraeus), the yeshiva was 
apparently still located in Tiberias during the first half of the ninth century. 
Evidently it was still in Tiberias during the first two decades of the tenth 
century, at the time of the dispute over the calendar. This we can assume, 
it seems, from a fragment of Saadia Gaon’s Sefer ha-Mo‘adim, in which it 
says (about the Palestinian Gaon, evidently Meir Gaon, as we shall see): 
‘and he sent his son in the seventh month of the year two [hundred and 
thirty] three and he came to Jerusalem’, that is, in July AD 922 (1233 Sel., 

hekhalot literature according to which there was an expectation of the arrival of the Messiah 
at that time, and he concludes that no such computations of ‘the end of the days’ were 
known in Palestine then. ‘Responsa of the people of Palestine’ are also mentioned in a 
Bodleian MS, in a fragment dealing with ritual slaughter (see in Lewin, Ginze qedem , 4 
[1930], 50). See Epstein, Hagoret i, 6:65(1905/6), a discussion on the responsumin the Sefer 
ha-pardes ascribed to Rashi, on the law concerning a widow whose child has died; judging 
by linguistic elements in the text of the responsum, Epstein assumed that it was from 
Palestine. Attention should also be paid to the habakhic sources contained in the ‘legal 
precedents of the Palestinians’ (wa'aslm livnc eres isrd'el); see a survey of these sources, with 
references to the research literature: Friedman, Tarbiz, 50(1980/81), 209—14. 

10 See earlier studies in which sources on the Palestinian yeshiva are collected, prior to the 
Geniza documents: Poznanski, REJ, 48(1904), 147ff; Marx, JQR. NS 1(1910/1), 62-85; 


499 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

AM 4682, in which Tammuz started on 30 June) the Palestinian Gaon sent 
his son from Tiberias to Jerusalem, it appears, to inform the people there 
of the fact that the months of Marheshwan and Kislev would be ‘short 
ones’ (of twenty-nine days). However, the letter from Joseph, king of the 
Khazars ( ca . 960) speaks of the ‘yeshiva in Jerusalem’ and according to this, 
if the information is reliable, one can assume that the yeshiva moved to 
Jerusalem towards the middle of the tenth century. During the eleventh 
century, the Palestinian Gaon was still called al- Tabaram (the Tiberian) in a 
letter from Fustat (apparently from Ephraim b. Shemaria) to the Gaon in 
Jerusalem, mentioning the fact that half of the income from ritual slaugh¬ 
tering in Fustat is taken by ‘the Tiberian’, that is, the Gaon. In a poem 
w'ritten by ‘Eli b. ‘Amram, leader of thejerusalemites in Fustat in the latter 
half of the eleventh century, in honour of the bent of a child, the writer 
mentions, apart from the authority of the Almighty, ‘with the authority of 
the Nasi and Gaon of Tiberias and Head of the yeshiva of Israel, which is in 
Jerusalem, House of God, our Lord Daniel’ (Daniel b. Azariah). 

At the beginning of the eleventh century, Geniza letters definitely 
disclose that Tiberias is no longer the seat of the yeshiva. The av-bet-dtn of 
the yeshiva, Hanania ha-Kohen b. Joseph, mentions in his letter the 
serious differences within the Tiberias community and the yeshiva’s inter¬ 
vention. It appears that Hanania’s brother served as judge in Tiberias, and 
when he died, the people of Tiberias asked the yeshiva to send them 
someone to take his place. Someone was indeed sent, after a group of 
Tiberian notables promised they would treat him well, but that person 
apparently tried to discard the authority of Jerusalem, and even took the 
liberty of proclaiming leap years (!), whereupon the Gaon and the yeshiva 
excommunicated him. Nevertheless, he continued to do as he saw fit and 
even organised a faction of supporters, and it seems that they also took for 
themselves the revenue from the ritual slaughtering that was intended for 
Jerusalem. It does appear, then, that there was some sort of rebellion in 
Tiberias which tried to re-establish the old order. 

I have already mentioned the responsum which has been preserved, to 
‘the holy community in Tiberias’. The questioner is a certain R. Yahya, 
who brought with him a letter from someone who ‘intercedes for Israel 
with their Heavenly Father’. It concerns the matter of an inheritance left by 
a certain Na'aman the teacher, over which two heirs are quarrelling. The 
responsum decides in favour of one party, according to the Babylonian 
Talmud, and claims that the Palestinian geonim would have taken such a 
stand from the days of Ben Meir and onwards. At the same time, someone 
who claimed that he stemmed from the exilarchic family, tried to establish 

see the article of Assaf on the geonim of Babylonia’s responsa as a source on Palestinian 

matters: Zion (ha-me’assef), 1:21, 1926/7; see also: Goitein, Baron Jubilee Volume, 503£F. 


500 



PALESTINIAN CUSTOMS [SECS. 739-741] 


a foothold and control the Tiberian community. Joshua ha-Kohen ha- 
mumhe b. Ya’sr wrote about the affair from Tiberias to the community in 
Aleppo. That alleged nasi also wished to dominate Syria, Tiberias, Jerusa¬ 
lem, and all of Palestine, and even Egypt, or as he says ‘from Egypt until 
Kalne’ (which is Raqqa). Finally, it was revealed that he was not a nasi (that 
is, a scion of the exilarchs) at all, and they banished him from Tiberias. 11 


Palestinian customs 

[739] Palestine was characterised by a number of customs with regard to 
law and ritual that it did not share with Babylonia. On examining the 
nature of these customs, it can be observed, however, that generally 
speaking, the matters at stake were not fundamental and therefore it is not 
surprising that these differences never caused schisms or even severe 
quarrels, although they evidently stemmed from very ancient roots. A 
treatise written at some undetermined date in the Middle Ages enumerates 
these differences, although it is doubtful whether it includes all the differ¬ 
ences. This treatise was published in two critical editions by modern 
scholars within a period of a few years; the one by M. Margaliot and the 
other by B. M. Lewin. 

One of the most ancient of these variances, already recognised in 
Talmudic times, was that of keeping two days of holiday outside of 
Palestine as against one day within the country. This custom received legal 
validity because of the uncertainty of obtaining reliable information as to 
the precise calendar order, as determined in Palestine. A responsum of a 

11 See a fragment from the Adler collection first printed by Adler et Broyde, REJ , 41(1900), 
225ff and published again by Bomstein, Sokolow Jubilee Volume, 74ff; see ibid., 74 n. 2; 
Bornstein assumes that the Gaon’s seat was perhaps in Tiberias; not so Mann, Jeter, I, 63, 
n. 1 who assumes that the reference is to Ramla, which is less convincing, for it is not likely 
that a journey from Ramla to Jerusalem would merit such special mention. Here one must 
note that in the letter of the Palestinian Gaon during the dispute, we find the passage: ‘the 
glory of Israel is butjerusalem the holy city, and the great Sanhedrin there, as our sages, of 
blessed memory, taught: he who has never seen the joy of the Bet ha-Sho’eva’ (the house 
of the woman who draws water) has never in his life seen joy’ ( Mishtta , Sukka, v.T). This is 
merely recalling ancient times in order to stress the superiority of the Palestinian yeshiva 
over the Babylonian yeshivas; see the letter in Bomstein, ibid., 62. See below, p. 563, in the 
note, on the source published by Fleischer. The letter ofjoseph king of the Khazars: above, 
n. 735. Al-Tabarani, MS. Reinach, line 4, and see the comments of Mann, Jews, II, 351. 
The poem of‘Eli b. ‘Amram: TS 12.358, a, lines 4-5, quoted also by Mann, Jews, I, 55, n. 
1; cf. Goitein, Shalem, 2(1975/6), 92f; Manama's letter: 23. The responsum: Mosseri, VIII, 
421; cf. Assaf, Mi-sijriit ha-ge'onim, 91 (its shelf-mark there: R 19) and the letter there, 
92-96; cf. the opinion of Mann, Tarbiz, 5(1933/4), 300f, n. 189, that the responsum is not 
from the Palestinian Gaon but from one of the scholars of Fustat and that its time is the end 
of the eleventh century; which is not likely; see above, pp. 176f, n. 50. The alleged nasi: 24, 
lines 42ff; it appears thatjosiah Gaon is referring to the same person in his letter, 29, and see 
on the entire affair below, in the discussion on the exilarchs. 


501 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


Gaon attempts to regulate the keeping of the custom of outside Palestine 
by someone who ‘went up’ to Palestine, saying that after twelve months, 
he has to accept the Palestinian custom, even if he has not decided to 
remain in Palestine permanently. This applies to the entire diaspora, 
including Ifrfqiya, but with the exception of Babylonia, whose Jews must 
observe the custom adopted outside Palestine for many years, and only 
when they have decided to settle in Palestine for good, they have to 
observe the local custom. Another variation in this sphere was that the 
Babylonian would read the shema ‘ while sitting down, on the basis of 
‘when thou sittest’ (Deut., vi:7), whereas the Palestinian would stand. 
Another somewhat important difference was that of the marriage deed 
( ketubba ), which according to the Babylonians was imposed ‘by the sages’ 
(i.e. the Talmud), while the tradition of the Palestinians was that it was 
imposed by the Torah; therefore mi-de-orayta was written in the Palestinian 
marriage deeds while mi-de-rabbdndn was written in the Babylonian mar¬ 
riage deeds. There was also a variation regarding divorce deeds; in Baby¬ 
lonia, it was written by one and signed by an additional signatory, while 
the Palestinian deed was written by one and there were two additional 
signatories. 

From the deeds included in my corpus of Geniza documents, one can 
discern certain characteristics typical of the Palestinian deed in general: the 
deed is generally dated ‘from the creation’; frequently they note the year 
‘by the week’, that is by the sabbatical cycle. There is always a clause 
mentioning ‘free will’ and sometimes also ‘of sane mind’. They use such 
terms as epitropos, and anttlar, and do not call a deed of attorney shetar 
urkhetd as the Babylonians do. 

Another departure was in the matter of the priests: among the Babylo¬ 
nians, ‘a kohen does not bless the people unless he is married, whereas the 
Palestinians bless only before they are married’. Another Palestinian cus¬ 
tom relates to the priest who has married a divorcee: ‘the tips of his fingers 
are severed’, so that he cannot make the blessing. 12 

12 The matter of the holidays: Ge’ane Mizrdh u-ma'amv. 12 a (No. 39); Margaliot, Hilluqhn, 
161-164; Lewin, Osar hilltif, 81 f. The matter of shema 1 , Osar ha-ge'dntm, to Berakhot, 
responsa, 25ff (from Seder Rav ‘Amrattt and other parallel versions); another rift is men¬ 
tioned in Ibn Ghayyath, Slta'are simha Hilekhot lulav (see the Fuerth edition [1860/61], I, 
117): '.. . this is what Rav Hayy said: we have heard that some people read: For this 
commandment (Deut., xxx:l 1) which is still the custom of Palestine and Jerusalem . . .’ 
(i.e., in the blessing over the lulav.) cf. Assaf, Zion (ha-me'assef). 1(1925/6), 28; the matter 
of the Palestinian marriage deed has now merited comprehensive treatment in Friedman, 
Jewish Marriage. I, 246ff; the comparison between the Palestinian and Babylonian marriage 
deeds is discussed in many places in the first volume of his book, see particularly the 
introduction, ibid., 1-47; one should note that in the texts of the marriage deeds he quotes, 
there is no formula min oraytd (from the Torah), but it says: ‘as Moses decreed to give the 
virgin daughters of Israel’; there is no reason to disqualify the evidence of Sherira Gaon, 
however, that min oraytd was indeed being written despite the lack of evidence from the 


502 



PALESTINIAN CUSTOMS [SECS. 739-741] 


[740] The Karaite writer al-Qirqisam, has some details on differences in 
the versions of the Bible which have been preserved, and he ridicules Jacob 
b. Ephraim the Palestinian (al-Shaml) who says that both ways of reading 
are legitimate. For instance, the people of Palestine read in 2 Kings, xix:31: 
‘the zeal of the Lord of hosts [seva’dt] shall do this’; the wordseva’ot is absent 
in the Babylonian reading (in our present Bible, seva’ot is read but not 
written). Or in Zechariah, xiv:4: ‘And his feet shall stand in that day’. The 
words ‘in that day’ are lacking in the Babylonian reading (but are found in 
our present Bible), and other such instances. According to him, the 
Babylonian reading prevailed from the borders of Raqqa to those of 
China, and was common to most people of al-jazlra (northern Iraq), 
Khurasan, Faris, Kirman, Isfahan; Yatnama, Bahrayn, Yaman (the latter 
three in the Arabian peninsula) and elsewhere. 13 

[741] The Babylonians, in belittling the values of the Palestinian cus¬ 
toms, claimed that these were the outcome of the terrible conditions and 
persecutions the Palestinians had undergone, because of which they were 
unable to know things properly or to carry out the precepts as prescribed 
by the correct law, that is, the Babylonian. We find these claims repeated 
in a number of places; in the treatise known by the name of Pirqoy b. 
Baboy, for instance, we encounter statements on the ban on the use of riq 
(vellum, which is riqq in Arabic, and I have already mentioned it in the 

Geniza. We do not have enough material on this subject in the collection of documents he 
presents, for we need evidence from Sherira Gaon’s time and preceding that, that is from 
the tenth century, and there are none. It is reasonable to assume that towards the eleventh 
century, Babylonian influence increased and the opposition to the Palestinian version to 
which the Gaon opposed, spread. See ibid., I, 248f; II, 62; and his quotation of Sherira’s 
opinion, from Sefer ha-makhri'a, on p. 246f. See the differences on the subject of divorce in 
the above-mentioned books by Margaliot and Lewin, according to the indexes. On the 
matter of the Palestinian deed, cf. Assaf, Mi-sifrut ha-ge'otum, 204f; the Palestinians are 
credited with the custom of ‘defloration with the finger’ and cf. Pirqe R. Eliezer, xvi 
(Friedlander evaded this in his English translation). On the blessings of the priests, see 
Margaliot, Hilluqlm, 88. cf. ibid., 174f; Lewin, Osar hUluf, 103f. In a deathbed will from 
Fustat, from the middle of the twelfth century, there is mention of al-kohen alladhi yifros, 
(‘who separates the fingers’ while putting hands together for the blessing), referring 
evidently to a bachelor, for this was the congregation of the ‘Palestinians’ and they 
evidently behaved in this matter according to Palestinian custom; see; Gil, Documents, 270, 
273, n. 6 (Document No. 55 [TS 13J 22, f. 2], a, line 8). A kohen who married a divorcee: 
Assaf, Zion (ha-me’assef 1(1925/6), 26: the responsum of Semah Gaon, and see Assafs 
doubts on this matter, for the parallel version he quotes there refers to Babylonia, not to 
Palestine. 

15 Qirqisani, I. 135-141; see: ibid., 49ff on further differences between Babylonia and 
Palestine, some of which are mentioned in the aforementioned treatise on the differences 
between Babylonia and Palestine, particularly with regard to marriage. On Jacob b. 
Ephraim we do not know much. Qirqisani mentions him frequently and he seems to have 
been his contemporary. From Salmon b. Yeruhim’s commentary to Ps., cxl (see in 
Pinsker, Liqqute qadmoniyot, II, 14) it appears that he wrote a commentary on the Pal¬ 
estinian Talmud. Qirqisani, 52, tells that he questioned him on the positive attitude of the 
Rabbanites to the followers of Abu ‘Isa, andjacob b. Ephraim told him that it was because 


503 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


chapter on the economy) made of hides that were not tanned with gall- 
nuts for writing a Torah scroll. The writer of the treatise stresses that: ‘and 
such is the law in the two yeshivas . . . they only wrote on such riq for a few 
years because of the apostasy decreed by Edom the Evil on Palestine, 
forbidding them to read in the Torah; so they hid all the Torah scrolls 
because [the Byzantines] would burn them and when the Ishmaelites 
came, they had no Torah scrolls nor scribes who knew the proper way of 
tanning the hides . . . and they would take nq from the gentiles’, etc. These 
explanations should naturally be taken with a pinch of salt. At any rate, the 
difficult times under the Byzantines led to a spiritual decline among the 
Jews of Palestine and there is no doubt that in the development of the law, 
Palestine could not compete with Babylonia and its yeshiva could not 
reach the prestigious stature in learning and wisdom achieved by the 
Babylonian yeshivot. The same situation prevailed during Islamic domi¬ 
nation, because of the constant wars and frequent catastrophes that beset 
Palestine, as we have seen. There is therefore a grain of truth in the opinion 
accepted by many scholars, that the law developed mainly in Babylonia, 
while in Palestine, more emphasis was laid on th epiyyiit (which included 
elements of prayers which had been banned during the persecution), on 
mystical literature, on midrash, and also on the merkava literature whose 
major ingredients were Gnostic influences and a belief in miracles. It is also 
possible that this state of mind was also characteristic of the sphere of 
influence of the Palestinian yeshiva abroad, that is, in those areas which 
belonged to Byzantium before the Muslim conquest, as well as those 
which remained under Byzantine rule, such as southern Italy. Evidence of 
this can be found in the Scroll of Ahlma‘as, with its story of the boy who 
was kept alive, though he had actually died, by virtue of the Divine Name 
being etched into his forearm. As Klar has shown in his discussion of the 
Scroll of Ahima'as, we have the evidence-cum-criticism of Hayy Gaon, in 
his responsum to Joseph b. Berekhia and Jacob rosh kalla b. Nissim and 
others of Qayrawan, on the use of‘names’ to perform wonders, which he 
considered vain talk, saying: ‘We were amazed to find that some scholars 
of Palestine and scholars of Edom, wise and learned men, good and 
faithful havenm, claim they have seen these things manifestly ... and 
altogether, the simple believeth every word (Prov., xiv:15), and we pity 
you for believing in such things. ’ He continues and notes there that ‘people 
from Rome and Palestine’ had all sorts of‘formulae and books’ such as sefer 
ha-yashar, the great and small hekhalot, in which ‘some of the names and 
angels’ names and forms of emblems are written’. And the Gaon does not 
hesitate to take the yeshiva in Sura to task, adding that there too, they 

the latter accepted the Rabbanite calendar. See the article by Poznanski, Gedenkbuch 

Kaujmann: 169; see also Mann, Tarbiz, 5(1933/4), 291 f. 


504 



THE ORGANISATION OF THE YESHIVA AND ITS TITLES [SECS. 742-745] 


occupy themselves with such matters, ‘for they are close to the city of 
Babylon and the House of Nebuchadnezzar’. Indeed, the characters who 
figure in the Ahlma'as Scroll are ‘people who understand mysteries’ and 
the ‘knowers of secrets’, ‘keepers of the name’ ‘who teach the sefer ha- 
yashar and watch the mystery of the merkava . The Karaite Sahl b. Masllah 
also ridicules the customs of the idolaters ‘among some of thejews; sitting 
in graves ... and applying to the dead and saying: oh, R. Yose ha-gelill, 
heal me, make me pregnant’, etc. The Palestinian Gaon Solomon b. Judah, 
was also not at ease with these customs and beliefs, and it is implied from 
what he wrote that actually a ban should be placed ‘on all those who make 
magic’ but this did not seem feasible, ‘for many people, men and women, 
do these things’. 14 


The organisation of the yeshiva and its titles 

[742] The yeshiva was headed by the rosh ha-yeshiva, also called ga’on, 
and we have already discussed the origin of the title Gaon, which was 
evidently only used during the Muslim period. The av-bet-din was second 
in rank and there were five other yeshiva people, usually designated 
according to the order of their importance, such as ‘the third’, ‘the fourth’, 
etc. They were styled, for instance, ‘the third in the yeshiva’ or ‘in the 
Great Sanhedrin’. Apparently there was actually a sort of ‘leadership 
triumvirate’ which consisted of the Gaon, the av-bet-din, and ‘the third’. 
The Gaon Solomon b. Judah notes in one of his letters that all his decisions 
are made together ‘with the av and the third’. Scholars who were recog¬ 
nised as such and ordained by the yeshiva to serve as dayyanim (judges) in 

14 See Mann, REJ, 70(1920), 137f, and see his explanations ibid., 118f (Mann assumed that a 
ban on a certain thin vellum was meant; but as mentioned above, they were referring to the 
vellum which had not been tanned with gall-nuts). With regard to the inferiority of 
Palestine in matters of religious law, Mann seems to have tried in Tarbiz, 5(1933/4), 288, 
n. 167 to qualify the severity of the comments by attempting to explain the scarcity of 
responsa of the Palestinian geonim in the Geniza documents. He assumed that the people 
of the Palestinian yeshiva would usually send the responsa directly by sea, not like the 
Babylonians, who sent them via Fustat and they were therefore preserved. See on the 
spiritual state of Palestine: Klar, Megillat Ahima'as, 118ff; the episode of the boy, and books 
of superstitions: ibid., 12, 14f, 30, 47. TheresponsumofHayy Gaon, see: Ta'amzeq., 16ff; 
similar to the complaint of Hayy Gaon about the people of Sura is also the story of Nissim 
ha-Nahrwanl, who would open locks by the use of the Divine Name, in Nathan the 
Babylonian's story, Neubauer, Mediaeval Jewish Chronicles, II, 78. On Joseph b. Berekhia 
and Jacob b. Nissim: Poznanski, Harkavy Jubilee Volume, 203-207 (Jacob b. Nissim b. 
Josiah ibn Shahln), where he quotes the responsum of Hayy Gaon I have mentioned here. 
The statement of Sahl b. Masllah: Pinsker, Liqqiite qadmoniyot II, 32. Solomon b. Judah: 
121 , line 9. See the strange episode of Solomon the cantor, nicknamed Sabiq, who was 
excommunicated in Ramla ‘for his magic’ and who reached Fustat with a recommendation 
from Solomon b. Judah: Ephraim b. Shemaria’s letter, 334 , a, line 24. Hayy Gaon also 
criticised the Palestinian custom to collect bones and transfer them for a second burial; see 
Assaf, Zion (ha-me’assef), 1(1925/6), 29 and references there. 


505 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

their communities and localities were called haverim, a term also to be 
found in Talmudic literature, where it is used as a synonym for a learned 
man, and the opposite of an ignoramus. Haver was the cognomen gener¬ 
ally applied to the dayyan who headed the community (and not rap, rabbi), 
as we can observe in the mere fact that the term haver became a loan-word 
in pre-Islamic Arabic ( habr ) meaning a Jewish scholar, or a leader of the 
Jews. The title, haver, was more or less the equivalent of the rosh kalla, the 
Babylonian title for scholars who were ordained and acted as judges or 
trustees of the yeshivas (and in their Arabic were termed ra’s al-kull), 
which was also a synonym for aliif. We learn from the sources in the 
Geniza pertaining to Fustat, that the rivalry between the yeshivot of 
Babylonia and the Palestinian yeshiva was sometimes expressed by get¬ 
ting an important public figure to accept the title of the yeshiva: the 
Palestinian haver as opposed to the Babylonian aliif or rosh kalla, and we 
shall see an example of this below'. The ancient title rosh ha-pereq (which 
became part of Byzantine legal terminology - the arkhipherekitai) , was no 
longer in use during this period and in my corpus, it is found only once: 
Perahia rosh ha-pereq b. Mu’atnmal (see the Hebrew Index). 

We get the impression that the principal qualities which were thought to 
merit an appointment were indeed knowledge of the Torah, wisdom, 
erudition, and being well-versed in the law, but it seems that one’s 
distinguished relatives and ancestry were also significant in this matter to a 
certain extent, as for example we found to be the case in the Babylonian 
yeshivot, as borne out by the description of Nathan the Babylonian. In this 
matter, we have the case of Abu Yusuf ra’s al-kull who received the title 
haver from the Gaon Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph, but who was not 
content with this and asked for more (apparently something like ‘seventh 
in the yeshiva’ or perhaps only he-haverha-me‘ulle). The Gaon Solomon b. 
Judah explains in his letter that it is presumptuous on the part of Abu 
Yusuf to make such a request; he should know that he lacks the qualities to 
be more than a haver, for ‘some eyes would watch him’. 15 

[743] Similar to the order of importance was the order of signatories on a 
deed or in letters, from the less to the more important, with the most 
important signing last. This is emphasised by Solomon b. Judah in the 

15 Solomon b. Judah: 152, line 29: see also 79, line 11, where he mentions that he consulted 
with ‘mv brother the third’. See Nathan the Babylonian in Neubauer, Mediaeval Jewish 
Chronicles, II, 87: ‘And this was their custom, if a rosh kalla died and he had a son, he would 
inherit his father’s seat and sit there even if he was young in years’, etc. The letter of 
Solomon b. Judah about Abu Yusuf: 83, b, lines 13ff. That Abu Yusufhe-haver seems to 
have been Jacob he-haver b. Joseph, and perhaps he may be identified with Jacob ha- 
me'uttdd (that is, a candidate to become haver), to whom Solomon b. Judah wrote the 
letters 54, 55, and who later became ajudge in Aleppo (see the Hebrew Index); cf. Goitein, 
Shalem, 1 (1973/4), 27, who notes that he was a dayyan first in Fustat and quotes there the 
matter of his signatures from the year 1018; it should be noted that he also had the title of 


506 



THE ORGANISATION OF THE YESHIVA AND ITS TITLES [SECS. 742-745] 

letter mentioned earlier. As to the av-bet-dln , he was a sort of deputy of the 
Gaon, and as such headed the religious-legalistic activities of the yeshiva, 
as his name indicates. From the sixties ( ca . 1065) there is the case of two 
contestants going to court - Avon b. Sedaqa and Joseph b. ‘All Kohen 
FasI, both Maghribi merchants. They presented their case before the 
av-bet-dm ; from the spirit of Avon’s letter, one senses the considerable 
extent of the av-bet-dln’s prestige. 16 

[744] A letter in the handwriting of Josiah Gaon’s scribe speaks of 
regulations written by the communities (in Ramla?) in Hebrew and Arabic 
‘on maintaining the netivot (pathways)’, and a letter is mentioned there to 
‘the haverim and the elders, concerning the maintaining of our netivot and 
the perpetual prayers’. This expression, maintaining the netivot, belongs 
perhaps to the hierarchal order and appointments in the yeshiva, or 
according to Goitein, to the order of advances in official status. We are 
aware that they were pedantic about the order of advancement, as we shall 
see. If the av-bet-dln died, for instance, ‘the third’ would take his place. On 
the other hand, we find the expression nesl’ ha-netlva, rosh ha-yeshlvd, 
which sounds as if there was a parallel between netlvd and yeshiva. If this 
was the case, why the use of netivot in the plural, as above, when there was 
only one yeshiva in Palestine? A quandary indeed. 17 

[745] As to the order of the rows in the Palestinian yeshiva, it seems that 
they observed the ancient Palestinian tradition of the three rows of the 
Sanhedrin, arranged according to the degree of erudition. This custom 
was evidently also observed in the Pumbedita yeshiva, as can be seen from 
the statement of Sherira Gaon about Shemaria b. Elhanan: ‘And if this 
were not so (if we did not know of his qualities), we would not have 
appointed him as our deputy nor would we have him appointed as head of 
the Great Row of the three rows of the yeshiva’. As against this, as 
mentioned, Nathan the Babylonian, while evidently referring to the Sura 
yeshiva, speaks of seven rows of ten. In a letter from the yeshiva written 
by Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon in 1057 (the writer and the date 

rosh kalla of the Babylonian yeshiva. His son Isaac is also mentioned in the documents in 
my corpus. 

16 The matter of the signatures: 83, b, lines 35-36 and margin. The litigation of the two 
Maghribis: 503, a, lines 39ff. Cf. on the matter of the order of importance: Bodl MS Heb 
100, f. 55, a fragment of a letter from the yeshiva to a community, from which it mentions 
al-haktm al-jalil (the honourable physician) Mr. Faraj b. ‘All, Badal and Abu Nasr, sons of 
Tobiah; the letter is written in the name of the [res/i ha-yeshtva], deputy of the yeshiva and 
some of the scholars, haverim and talmidun [pupils, by which are meant also scholars] .. . 
and all those associated with the yeshiva’; in which that community is informed that the 
representative of the yeshiva is due to arrive there at any minute; but it is impossible to 
make out what yeshiva they are speaking of and there is also no certainty regarding the 
date of the letter. 

17 The netivot, see 38, c, lines 6-7; d, lines 4-5; the nasi of the nettva: 8, line 7; cf. Goitein, 
Mediterranean Society, II, 522, n. 36. 


507 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


being assumed), he speaks of seventy-one berurtm (elects), in three rows 
and in a semi-circle. There is also a description of the arrangements in the 
Palestinian yeshiva in a poem from the Geniza, first edited by Schechter in 
1901 (‘The Oldest Collection of Bible Difficulties’). This poem presents a 
subject for discussion on its nature and the identity of its author. The poet 
speaks of the tents of Ben Baroqa, on the round barn, the holy havurd of 
justice, the Gaon of Ya'aqov, the stone (put under) the head ofjacob, the 
seven haverim, the av-bet-din on the right side of the Gaon and ‘the third’ 
on his left side. 18 


The status of the yeshiva and its prerogatives 

[746] From a document first identified and edited by Goitein, it 
emerges, without any doubt, that the Gaon who headed the Palestinian 
yeshiva was the recognised leader of the Jewish communities within the 
framework of Fatimid rule and was accepted as such by the authorities. I 
have already stated that the Gaon’s authority and prestige extended over 
all those communities in regions which were at one time under Byzantine 
dominion. This document is the draft of a letter, or a memoir, written in 
Arabic and in Arabic script; a singularly important document, not only 

18 The three rows, see in the Mishna, Sanh. iv:3-4 (‘like half of a round barn ... and three 
rows of scholars sit before them’); see on the letter of Sherira Gaon: Epstein, JQR, NS 
12(1921/2), 371 according to Bodl MS Heb e 44, f. 81 and see there further references to 
Talmudic sources; the letter of Sherira Gaon was first published by Neubauer, JQR, 
6(1894), 223; andcf. the notes of Mann, JQR, NS 8(1917/8), 349ff; the letter of the yeshiva: 
420, b, lines 16-18. Nathan the Babylonian, in Neubauer, Mediaeval Jewish Chronicles, II, 
87. The poem, see Schechter, JQR, 13(1901), 364f; see also: Potges, JQR, 20(1908), 187; 
Mann, AJSLL , 46(1930), 268f. Mann, Jews, I, 277; Klar, Tarbiz, 14(1943/4) 167ff; ibid., 
15(1943/4), 46ff, where he expresses the view that the poem was written before essameshdli 
of Saadia Gaon; and he has an interesting comparison between the two; Rosenthal, 
HUCA, 21 (1948), 52, lines lOff (with the verses dealing with the yeshiva, in an improved 
second printing); an additional fragment from that poem, from the Kaufmann collection, 
was edited by Scheiber, HUCA, 27(1956), 292ff, where there are remnants of an acrostic 
with the name of the author; it seems to me to be possible to complete it: [Isaac b. Mxxx 
b.[Dan]ie[l], who is perhaps Isaac the cantor, of Fas, who wrote 241, with a rhymed 
introduction which fits the style of the author of our poem; the writer says of himself (in 
Rosenthal, ibid., lines 21ff) that when he was a youth of eighteen he left ‘the land of Tubal’ 
and went west. The writer of242 is named Daniel b. Isaac, who is perhaps the son of the 
aforementioned and named after his great-grandfather. And that same Isaac is perhaps 
Abu Daniel al-Fasi who is mentioned in 1018 by Hayy Gaon in his letter to Elhanan b. 
Shemaria; TS10 J 27, f. 10, line 3, see in Mann, Texts, 1,135f; and see his comments there, 
117. Nevertheless, this identification is naturally only an assumption; Fleischer, HUCA, 
38(1967), 17, thought the author was an early Spanish commentator: Isaac called ha- 
mahavil (or in another version: ha-mavhil), or ha-Yishaql, whom Abraham ibn Ezra 
mentions frequently; Fleischer has shown that the copyist (not the author!) of the poem as 
it is found in the Geniza was the Karaite Tobiah b. Moses (who will be referred to below), 
see: Kiryat Sefer, 55:183, 1979/80. 


508 



THE STATUS OF THE YESHIVA AND ITS PREROGATIVES [SEC. 746] 


with regard to the status of the Palestinian Gaon but applicable, in general, 
to the standing ofjewish institutions of leadership under Islamic rule. This 
is the only document which has been preserved from the early Middle 
Ages which speaks of the appointment of a Jewish leader, his recognition 
and prerogatives. The document includes the following points: (a) his 
appointment is based on the community’s approval; (b) the Gaon is the 
supreme judicial authority; (c) he has the power to decide on matters 
relating to matrimony, marriage and divorce; (d) he superintends the 
observance of the religious precepts; (e) he guides his community towards 
the good rather than the evil (which means in the jargon of Muslim law: to 
observe the regulations pertaining to the status of the dhimmis, particu¬ 
larly the payment of taxes); (f) he has the prerogative to excommunicate or 
reverse excommunication; (g); he has the prerogative to appoint cantors, 
ritual slaughterers, havertm and judges, or to dismiss them from their 
posts; (h) he oversees the parnaslm and the public trustees (the intention 
here is the management of community property, particularly the heqdesh); 
and (i) he has the right to appoint a representative in every locality or 
region. In conclusion, the document stresses the fact that everyone is 
obliged to obey the Gaon, unqualifiedly. 

It is worth comparing this with two other similar documents; one, the 
letter of appointment of the Nestorian catholicus of Baghdad, dating from 
1138, and the other, the letter of appointment of the head of the jews in 
Egypt (ra’ts al-yahud) at the time of the Mamluks. In the former, we also 
find the point with regard to the community’s approval of the appoint¬ 
ment. The prerogatives are not spelled out in detail, apart from a general 
statement that he has the authority of a leader, and a sentence concerning 
the management of the foundations (inclusive of the management of the 
Church foundations: tadbir wuqufihim). His legal prerogative is hinted at in 
a saying that he would protect the weak against the strong; there is 
emphasis on the special dress he is to wear, the exclusiveness of the title, 
and the obedience due to him from all Christians of all sects (for the 
Nestorians were the largest Christian sect). The Mamluk document re¬ 
sembles the document of the Gaon’s appointment to a greater extent. It 
speaks explicitly of the prerogative to direct the legal system; to be 
responsible for matters of marriage and divorce; to excommunicate; to 
supervise the observance of the religious precepts; to be concerned with 
the behaviour of his flock in accordance with the regulations relating to the 
dhimmis (cited in detail); to appoint fyavenm and their subordinates; to 
superintend all matters concerning all the synagogues. 

We can see then that this memoir, which has preserved for us a record of 
the status of the Palestinian Gaon under the Fatimids, is in keeping with 
what was customary and accepted Islamic rule in general. The Muslim 


509 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


authorities recognised the dhimmis’ right to choose their own leaders, and 
this is undoubtedly a notable indication of their freedom to associate and 
communal autonomy. At the same time, the rulers strictly observed the 
principle that it was they who appointed the leader of the community, in 
accordance with recommendations from its heads and notables, however. 
It appears that during the first years of Islamic rule, it was the exilarch who 
was granted such an official appointment, and from Benjamin of Tudela’s 
account, we understand that in Iraq this was still the custom in the latter 
half of the twelfth century: ‘he has great power over all the communities of 
Israel’ on behalf of the caliph, who grants him ‘the seal of power over all 
the holy communities who live under the authority of his learning’. A 
solemn expression of the stature of the head of the yeshiva was in the 
mention of the rashut (from rosh, head). This was customarily used in the 
opening phrases of the sermons held in synagogues, and evidently also in 
the qaddish prayer, and also in deeds in the following form: ‘under the 
rashut of so-and-so, the Gaon’. 19 

19 See 311 : among the ideas on judicial prerogative and the supervision of the implemen¬ 
tation of the religious precepts, one must also include what was said there further, that it is 
he who decides on matters of the law and who preaches sermons. By haverim (ahbar), the 
judges who head the communities are meant, as explained above. The letter of appoint¬ 
ment of the catholicus is included in the tadhkira of Ibn Hamdun (died 1168), an anthology of 
political science in twelve volumes, of which only the second volume was published 
(Cairo 1927). [In Dinur, Yisrael ba-golah, 1-1, 78, mistakenly: Ibn Zaydun.] The letter of 
appointment was evidently granted by al-Muktafi II, to Mar ‘Abd Ishu‘, of Mosul; we 
know that the coronation of the latter took place on Wednesday, 3 RabT I 535, October 
1140, in the presence of the wazlr, who came to the ceremony on horseback accompanied 
by the commander of the police ( sahib al-shurta) and a group of Turkish soldiers and escorts 
and he was led in procession to Mada’in, the ancient Persian capital (which is Mahoze — 
Ctesiphon-Seleukeia), the Nestorians’ centre. See: Mari b. Sulayman, Akhbar, 156ff 
(text), 132 (translation). This letter of appointment was first edited by Amedroz, in JRAS, 
1804, 468; and again: von Kremer, ZDMG, 7(1853), 219ff; Mingana, BJRL, 10(1926), 
127f. On Ibn Hamdun see: Brockelmann, GAL, I, 281; S I, 493, and the article on him in 
EP (by F. Rosenthal). The Mamluk version: Qalqashandl, Subh, XI, 390f; cf. Gottheil, 
JQR, 19(1907), 530f; see the Hebrew translation in Poliak, Zion, 1(1936), 35ff; cf. also 
Ashtor, Toledot, II, 240. An interesting example of the authorities' involvement in the 
appointment of the leader of the community and providing backing for his actions, we 
find also in an official letter (sijilT) which al-Hakim wrote to Nicephorus, the new patriarch 
of Jerusalem after the death of Theophilus, after al-Hakim withdrew his decrees in the 
summer of 1020. He exploited the opportunity, as it were, of the rise of a new patriarch in 
order to once again ensure the rights and protection of the Christians and their churches; 
see Yahya ibn SaTd (Cheikho), 230f; Benjamin of Tudela (Adler), 40. See also TS Arabic 
Box 38, f. 93, the letter of appointment of the leader of the Jews (ra’is al-yahiid) in 
Damascus; in the right-hand column, lines 14—15, it says that he is given the leadership 
(. al-riyasa ) of the two communities, the Rabbanites and the Karaites; cf. the comments of 
Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 527, n. 41. At this stage, it is difficult to determine the 
date of this document, but it emerges from another document that during Fatimid times 
(and evidently also during previous generations of Muslim rule) it was accepted that a local 
leader had to receive an official appointment from the ruler: 315 , which is a fragment of a 
draft of a petition intended to obtain recognition of Joseph ha-Kohen, dayyan of Alex¬ 
andria, from the ruler. It says there that the aforementioned acted as dayyan in the days of 

510 



PEACE-MAKING [SECS. 747-751] 

Peace-making 


[747] Settling differences was not one of the roles and prerogatives of the 
Gaon listed in the aforementioned letter of appointment. It was, however, 
one of his principal preoccupations, according to the documents at our 
disposal. Disputes were an everyday affair within thejewish community. 
Mostly, one gets the impression that these disputes were mainly motiv¬ 
ated by pride - the ambition to occupy a leading position and to be granted 
titles and honours. Our inclination would be to blame the quarrellers and 
merely shake our heads over the parties’ motives, but we cannot ignore 
another aspect of this affliction. After all, the inclination to dispute is 
evidence of the vitality of the social context and the intense involvement of 
the individual in this framework. For a person to invest all his intellectual 
energy in the differences which we encounter in the documents preserved 
from those times, and to strive to dominate the community, indicates that 
the community was of considerable importance to him. Moreover, the 
power struggles within the community, if a compromise was not arrived 
at, generally led to the elimination of one of the parties and the victory of 
the other. This does not mean that the victor was either wiser or more 
learned than the man he defeated, but merely that he had more power. 
This may have been due to certain character traits or to the fact that his 
supporters in the way of family, relatives or friends - were both stronger 
and more numerous. In the long run, what happened here in the course of 
time was a process of social selection, which eventually placed the 
management of community affairs in the hands of the more capable, the 

former geonim, Josiah and Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph, and also in the days of al-Fasi, 
Solomon b. Judah. He was appointed on behalf of the Gaon to the office of day yan, to deal 
with marriages and divorces, to appoint cantors (and here we have an example of the 
delegation of authority by the Gaon to his representative), to appoint or dismiss the 
welfare officials {pamdstm ); everyone had to obey him whereas he was obliged to obey 
only the Gaon. The petition seems to have been written on the ascendance of a new caliph 
(evidently al-Mustansir, 1036). The son of the dayyaii, Yeshu‘a ha-Kohen he-haver b. 
Joseph, is known to us from a number of Geniza documents, see also the Hebrew Index. 
Cf. Goitein, S. W. Baron Jubilee Volume , 528. On the matter of the rashut, see: Goitein, 
Mediterranean Society , II, 20f. Yahya ibn Sa‘Id (PO), 15, tells of the episode of the patriarch 
Sa‘ld ibn Bitriq (the author of the chronicle) whose rivals wished to isolate him ‘and they 
stopped mentioning his name in some churches and bishops’ seats, such as Tinnls and 
al-Farama’. Cohen, Self-Government , 268, wonders whether there is mention of the rashut 
in what is said in TS 20.177, about the Nagid Mevorakh b. Saadia; but there it only says 
(lines 16-18) that the community thanked the Nagid for his concern for them, and that 
they joyously prayed for the welfare of the Nagid and his son, and one certainly cannot 
compare this to prayers for the caliph nor to the mention of the rashut as was the custom 
towards the Gaon. As to the appointment of a representative in every community (above, 
clause i), what is said in 331, a court record from Fustat 1038 (line 8) is a good example of 
this: ‘our Lord and Master Ephraim, the haver in the Great Sanhedrin, who is the deputy of 
our Lord and Master Solomon, head of the yeshiva ge’bn ya‘aqbv’\ see also 332, with a 
complaint against a man of Spain, who did not mention the Gaon in his sermon. 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


stronger and those of its members with the greatest support. Objectively 
speaking, both the community and its management were strengthened as 
a result. Naturally we are not speaking of a democratic framework but ofa 
struggle between individuals and factions who were trying to achieve the 
greatest backing from the people of the community and its notables, while 
their major efforts were devoted to securing the support of the yeshiva and 
its head, the Gaon. The Gaon would try to establish peace, but frequently 
we find him supporting one of the parties; that party which seemed to him 
- or so we assume - to be more loyal and more worthy of coming out 
ahead. 

One of the first instances we encounter in a letter in my collection (from 
ca. 1025) is a dispute in Caesarea (Hasor) on the honour of saying the 
prayer nishmat kol hay in the synagogue, an honour which was apparently 
generally granted to the younger son of one of the notables, and in this 
case, given to the son of Halfon al-Ramll; while the local cantor decided to 
prepare the son of Eleazar b. Joseph, ahiiv (‘the beloved of’) ha-yeshiva, for 
this role as well. The yeshiva’s judgment was that they should perform the 
prayer alternatively. About a century later, the community of Ascalon 
was enraged by a similar occurrence, at a time when most of Palestine was 
already under the control of the Crusaders and the Jews of Ascalon were 
also living under the threat of the capture of their city. Here, too, they 
were quarrelling over whether the privilege of saying the prayer nishmat 
kol hay be given to the son of one of the community’s dignitaries. 
However, the yeshiva was no longer in Jerusalem but (it seems) in Da¬ 
mascus, and therefore the contestants applied to the Nagid in Egypt, after 
a dayyan who was sent to Ascalon to settle the matter peacefully, was 
unsuccessful in his mission, and the solution of saying the prayer either 
alternately or together was rejected. 20 

[748] In the autumn of 1025, Abraham, son of the Gaon Solomon b. 
Judah, was staying in Damascus, and he mentions in a letter that he 
succeeded in ‘returning peace to peace’; possibly meaning that apart from 
the general state of peace which prevailed after al-Dizbiri’s victory, he also 
succeeded in appeasing the Damascus community. Not long after this, his 
father the Gaon is involved in a difficult quarrel which broke out in Fustat, 
due to which the endeavours to release thejerusalemites who were impris¬ 
oned because of the debt remaining from the war of 1024 were un¬ 
successful. The Gaon devotes most of a letter to Ephraim b. Shemaria to 
admonitions blaming the dispute. The quarrel seems to have been be¬ 
tween Ephraim b. Shemaria himself and some other dignitary from Fustat 
who also bore the title haver, for in another letter, Solomon b. Judah writes 


20 Caesarea: 48. Ascalon: 595, a, line 22, and b. 


512 



PEACE-MAKING [SECS. 747-751] 

that ‘it is worthy of the two haverim to be loved by one another like those 
who dwell in the garden and hearken’ (S. of S., viii:13), hinting at a 
quarrel. In a brief fragment of another letter from that period, Solomon b. 
Judah praises someone who avoided a dispute, and did not aspire to an 
appointment to which the other was more entitled, nor did he ask it of the 
yeshiva, and he reacts to the information that the dispute in Fustat has 
ended (so it appears) with satisfaction. 21 

[749] Some ten years later, we again come across echoes of a dispute in 
Fustat. Solomon b. Judah had evidently reproached Ephraim b. Shemaria 
for the latter’s involvement in that dispute, the details of which are not 
known. Now he retracts what he said, but advises him to behave in a 
manner which would prevent disputes. Another decade and more have 
passed, and in 1048 evidently, another quarrel broke out in Fustat, as we 
understand from a letter from Solomon b. Judah to Ephraim b. Shemaria, 
in which he mentions that his son Abraham received a letter about the 
behaviour of‘the man who was appointed by the at/’; he meant to say that 
the av-bet-din of the yeshiva (perhaps Nathan b. Abraham) appointed 
another haver in Fustat. The Gaon is amazed at the behaviour of the man: 
‘not for this was he appointed, but to behave modestly’, and so on. 
Although there are ‘good qualities’ to this rival of Ephraim b. Shemaria’s, 
and ‘if he would have acted as a pious man should, and kept his honesty 
with courage, he would have been found worthy of being appointed, for 
he is of a good ancestry’; but further on, Solomon b. Judah suggests to 
Ephraim that he has nothing to fear, for he will not authorise the granting 
of the title: ‘not everyone who wishes to obtain a title, can obtain it by 
himself, by gathering people around him in order to arouse disputes’; ‘.. . 
we do not grant support to people eager to quarrel’. The struggles of 
Ephraim b. Shemaria seem to be typical of the relationships that prevailed 
in thejewish communities. Even more characteristic are the remarks made 
by Ephraim in the draft of a letter to the Gaon: the opposition is referred to 
as ‘the agitators and the complainers’; they are ‘difficult’ towards him; 
‘many help the boys to light the fire’; ‘the generation has been extremely 
spoiled and concerning them the saying has become true that, the child 
shall behave himself proudly against the ancient, and the base against the 
honourable’ (Is., iii:5). He requests the Gaon to write a letter of appease¬ 
ment to the community, worded wisely and carefully, in his own hand¬ 
writing, which the community knows and can recognise, and not that of a 
scribe. 22 

2! Abraham son ofthe Gaon: 59, lines 17-18 (the Gaon was still Solomon ha-Kohen b, Joseph 
then, and not the father of the writer). Solomon b. Judah criticising the quarrel in Fustat: 
66 ; the other letter: 68 ; the fragment: 69 ; the settling of the quarrel: 72 . 

22 The advice to Ephraim: 122 , a, lines 4-5; the matter of the competitor: 147 . Ephraim’s 
letter: 334, b, lines 4-11. 


513 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


[750] The quarrels in the Fustat community were resolved, but not for 
long. In the summer of 1053, the emissary of the yeshiva writes a sort of 
account to Joseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon, then au-bet-dm of the 
yeshiva, on what is happening in Fustat. The letter contains a gloomy 
description of the situation. That was at the time when Daniel b. Azariah 
was Gaon, while ‘Eli b. ‘Amram stood at the head of the community. The 
‘Palestinian’ congregation in Fustat and its synagogue were very much on 
the decline. The Maghribis, who joined this congregation (and not that of 
the ‘Babylonians’) are most of the time on journeys elsewhere. Their 
representative, who was to be responsible for the synagogue, Abu’l-Surur 
(Joshua) b. Nathan the Spaniard, is in the Sa‘Id (Upper Egypt), while Abu 
‘All, who is Yefet b. David, is old and weak and cannot settle the quarrel 
because no one listens to him. The emissary writes that he himself tried to 
make peace between the adversaries, with the help of‘Eli b. ‘Amram and 
Judah ha-Kohen b. Joseph (who is the Rav), and he indeed managed to 
reconcile the parties. Some years later there was again dissension in Fustat, 
on which we have no details, between Abu ZikrI, who is Judah he-haver b. 
Saadia (afterwards known by the title Nagid), and Joshua he-haver b. 
Dosa. The Jerusalem parnas ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel writes about it to the 
Fustat parnas, ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim, in the late fifties. Fie also de¬ 
scribes the joy in Jerusalem when it was learned that ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. 
Hayyim (that is, the addressee) succeeded in making peace between the 
two haverim (perhaps he writes this to flatter him). In another letter, 
written a month later, ‘Eli ha-Kohen the Jerusalemite again writes to ‘Eli 
ha-Kohen of Fustat, of thejoy everyone injerusalem felt on learning of the 
accord arrived at between ‘our Lords the haverim . . . and our Lord the 
Masos (mesds ha-yeshiva) (‘joy of the yeshiva’; evidently meaning Abraham 
b. David b. Sughmar), 23 


23 The letter of the emissary: 398 . ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel: 440 ; Judah b. Saadia shall be 
mentioned below, in the discussion on the negidim; as to Joshua he-haver ha-me‘ulle b. 
Dosa al-Ladhiql, from a family originating in Ladhiqiyya in northern Syria, as the name 
indicates: he is mentioned in the genealogic list: 4 , and in several letters in my corpus, see 
the Hebrew Index; as is his father as well, Dosa ‘the honourable prince’; TS 13J 23, f. 5 is a 
letter to Abu Mansur Dosa, the grandson, son of the aforementioned Joshua, who lives in 
a darb (a courtyard or lane) in Qasr a\-Sham‘ (‘the fortress of the candles’), from Sahl b. 
Hatim, from Raqqa in northern Syria. The additional letter of‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel: 
443 ; al-mdsos (the masos - an abbreviation of the title mesds ha-yeshiva) was frequently 
called Abu Ishaq, or Abraham, as in the letters of Yefet b. David dealing with matters 
concerning the income from slaughtering, as in: 313 ; 402 is a letter to the Gaon Daniel b. 
Azariah, which is in the handwriting of Abraham b. David b. Sughmar, and deals 
precisely with these matters (after the death of Yefet b. David). It is evidently he who was 
nicknamed al-mdsds ; Abraham b. David b. Sughmar played an important role in the 
dispute of Nathan b. Abraham, to be described below, and Solomon b. Judah mentions 
then the letters of the masos -see 129 , lineS; and in the continuation, lines 27ff, he notes that 
‘his grandfather is one of the righteous of Israel .. . and they are the foremost of the city of 


514 



PEACE-MAKING [SECS. 747-751] 


[751] We find similar occurrences in Alexandria. The people of this city 
complain about Yeshu‘a ha-Kohen b. Joseph the dayyan, to the Gaon, and 
he replies that Joseph the dayyan enjoys the confidence of the local people 
and also of the yeshiva. He also has some doubts as to the signatories to the 
letter of complaint, for all the signatures are in the same handwriting. In 
another of his letters, the Gaon takes Yeshu‘a to account for belittling the 
title of haver which he was granted. In the same letter, addressed to the 
community in Alexandria, he also mentions the matter of the cantor 
Shelah b. Moses (who evidently headed the opposition to Yeshu'a ha- 
Kohen) . He explains in elegant terms that he cannot accept the recommen¬ 
dation of Sahlan b. Abraham, leader of the ‘Babylonians’ in Fustat (we find 
him, strangely enough, involved in the affairs of the ‘Palestinians’ in 
Alexandria) to appoint this cantor haver, for in such a matter there must be 
a consensus of opinions. For someone to be appointed haver (‘to be prayed 
upon as haver’) he must be of unquestionable suitability for such a degree. 

The Alexandrian affairs also troubled the succeeding Gaon, Daniel b. 
Azariah, who succeeded some twenty or more years later. Yeshu‘a ha- 
Kohen b. Joseph ha-dayyan, the same haver, still has stubborn opponents. 
The Gaon, writing to Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac b. Furat, claims that he 
always liked Yeshu‘a as well as his father, Joseph the dayyan, and tried to 
influence their opponents to leave them in peace because he thought the 
latter were not behaving properly. He also asked ‘Eli he-haver b. ‘ Amram, 
leader of the ‘Palestinians’ in Fustat, not to become involved in the dispute 
in Alexandria and not to have anything to do with Yeshu‘a’s opponents. 

Fas’ - and it seems that the reference is to this Abraham b. David. One can identify the 
handwriting of Abraham b. David by TS 13J 1, f. 12, a court record in the handwriting of 
Ephraim b. Shemaria, dated Friday, 26 Kislev 1361 Sel., that is, 24 November AD 1049, 
which includes at the end additional evidence, written in Tevet, that is, December 1049, in 
the handwriting of Ibrahim b. Da’ud b. Sughmar, with his signature: Abraham b. R. 
David, of blessed memory; cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, III, 564, n. 118; in 1032, he 
stayed in Sicily; see TS 8 Ja 2 in: Ftirschfeld, JQR, 16(1904), 575f., line 10: ‘son of 
Zughmar’ (!). Perhaps he is the same as Abraham b. David b. Labrat, inTS24.6, line 47 (a 
letter from Sicily to the community of Qayrawan, see: Mann ,JQR, NS 9[1918/9], 175ff); 
it also seems that the MS Mosseri II 150 (L151) is in his handwriting; his son Nethanel is 
mentioned there, and he is mourning another of his sons who died, David; one can also 
recognise the handwriting of Abraham b. David from 190, the letter of‘Eli ha-Kohen b. 
Ezekiel; also from another Geniza fragment, Westm. Coll. Misc., f. 124, which deals with 
commercial matters, which has his signature: ‘Abraham b. R. David’, in the right-hand 
margin. Another fragment in the Geniza, ENA 2808, f. 45, which also seems to be in his 
hand-writing has the signature: ‘Abraham b. David b. Labrat’, and this proves that my 
assumption that the name of his grandfather was Labrat is correct. 402a is a fragment from 
a letter also in his handwriting, and can be added to the information on his involvement in 
the matters of the ritual slaughtering in Fustat. It seems that theletter was directed to ‘Eli b. 
‘Amram, and the Abu ‘All mentioned there is Yefet b. David b. Shekhania, see infra, sec. 
805. The nickname al-masos is also to be found in the Adler MS edited by Bacher, RE], 
40(1900), 56f, lines 29, 34; the editor assumed that it was an Arabic word: al-mushaunvash, 
and translated it le trouble. 


515 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

On the other hand, it appears that Daniel b. Azariah also makes some 
critical remarks on YeshiYa ha-Kohen and reproaches him, particularly for 
the fact that he does not participate in the meetings convened by Abraham 
ha-Kohen. 24 


The judicial prerogative 

[752] The network of law courts was the main backbone for maintain¬ 
ing the Jewish communal framework. It was not unwarranted that the 
Jewish leadership, in all its various branches, kept a careful eye on the ban 
to appeal to the gentile courts, as we have seen in the discussion above. The 
Palestinian yeshiva was at the top of the judicial hierarchy in the areas 
under its rule and influence. The Gaon and his court had the final decision 
in these matters. This is explicitly stated by the head of the ‘Babylonian’ 
community in Fustat, Sahlan b. Abraham, writing to an unidentified 
haver with regard to a power-of-attorney given to Abu’l-Hasan ‘Allun, in 
a matter that cannot be discerned in the remaining fragment. In the letter 
he repeats again and again that the final decision lies with the Gaon. The 
court of the yeshiva is ‘the grand court’ as opposed to a local court, such as 
‘the court of Misrayim’ (that is, of Fustat), which is subordinate to it. Of 
the ‘court of Tarabulus’ (Tripoli in Libya), it was said that it did not accept 
the dictates of the ‘grand court, may it be guarded from Heaven’. Nathan 
b. Abraham, the av-bet-din of the yeshiva, passes on instructions to Fustat 
to sue a certain person, and the head of the local court, the haver, Ephraim 
b. Shemaria, informs him that the accused has indeed been called to court. 
One single page remains of the court diary of the Jerusalem yeshiva, from 
August 1023; the diary was usually called shimmush bet-din, evidently. 
From its contents, it emerges that people would come from Ramla to 
litigations before the court of the yeshiva. A decision concerning an 
agreement between a man and his wife who are apparently living apart is 
recorded there, along with the signatures of five witnesses. There is also an 
arrangement for paying off a debt by instalments and a confirmation on 
the part of a jeweller of the receipt of a quantity of silver. The status of the 
yeshiva court can also be seen in a fragment of a letter remaining from the 

24 Alexandria, see: 73, 74; Joseph the dayyan, the father, was mentioned above, and it seems 
that the father and son continued to devote themselves to public service for many years, 
but only the son Yeshu'a, earned the title haver. The first letter speaks of the communities 
of Alexandria, that is, he evidently represented the two communities, the ‘Palestinians’ 
and the ‘Babylonians’. In 74, Alexandria is called No' Amon, taken from Nahum iii:8; the 
city is called thus in deeds (although frequently also Iskandariyya); cf. Golb, JNES, 
33(1974), 117; and see also: Bereshit rabba (Theodor and Albeck), 1-2; Eusebius, in 
Hieronymus, MPL, 25, 1260: ‘Hebraice No dici Alexandriam, Amon autem mutltitudi- 
nem, sive populos’ (‘in Hebrew, No is Alexandria, while Amon - the masses, the people’); 
cf. Gil, Documents, 478, n. 2. The letter of Daniel b. Azariah, see 355, a, lines 32ff. 


516 



THE JUDICIAL PREROGATIVE [SECS. 752-756] 


time of the Gaon Daniel b. Azariah, written by the scribe of the yeshiva. It 
contains instructions to the haver in Fustat, ‘Eli b. ‘Amram, how to 
behave in a matter which has to be brought before the court, a litigation 
between parties living in provincial towns in Egypt. They must be sum¬ 
moned, if the court cannot go out to those places, and the proper legal 
procedures must be punctiliously observed. It seems that the Maghribis, 
the great maritime traders, were very insistent that their deeds should bear 
the validation (qiyyiim) of the grand court, that is the court of thejerusalem 
yeshiva. Thus, Moses b. Jekuthiel, a physician and merchant of Fustat, a 
Spaniard by origin (al-AndalusI), who had come especially from Tyre 
(where he had stayed on business matters), tojerusalem in order to receive 
the validation of the grand court on deeds relating to his dealings with 
some of his partners. 25 

[753] There are a variety of remnants of letters and documents of the 
court which are evidence of the extent of the court of the yeshiva’s 
activities and its involvement in practical decisions, starting from matters 
of the synagogue and ending with commerce and deposits. In a letter from 
Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon b. Joseph, we find a discussion on the affair of 
Muhassin (Mevorakh) b. Husayn son of Sam'an’s sister, a merchants’ 
representative whom I have mentioned above, who has sworn that he will 
no longer go to the synagogue for reasons which are not known to us, and 
the Gaon quotes the law and Talmudic sayings admonishing him on this. 
Matters of inheritance evidently occupied first place in the yeshiva court’s 
activities, if we can judge by the letters that have been preserved. I have 
already mentioned the responsum to ‘the holy community in Tiberias’, 
dealing with the legacy of Na'aman the teacher. Solomon b. Judah also 
deals with an inheritance in his letter to Abu Ghalib David ha-Levi b. 
Aaron al-Barqi (from Barqa in Libya). The letter concerns a certain 
Mevasser, of Ramla, who died and left three sons, Mawhub, Moses, and 
Isaac. Mawhub went to Egypt to collect his father’s bequest. The court in 
Ramla appointed Sabgha b. Yeshu‘a he-haver, who travelled to Egypt, to 
represent the two younger brothers — Moses, who was in Egypt, and 
Isaac, who was in Ramla and was deaf-and-dumb - in order to obtain what 


25 Sahlan b. Abraham: 339 . The grand court, etc.: 396 (‘the court ofTripoli, which did not 
obey the order of the grand court, may it be guarded from Heaven’). Nathan b. Abraham: 
333 , b, lines 19-20 (March 1043). The page from the court diary: 42 . The instructions to 
Fustat: 375 . Moses b. Jekuthiel: 243 (on his deals with partners see 276 ); he mentions in his 
letter (written to one of his friends), the head of the yeshiva, the ‘third’ Tobiah b. Daniel, 
the ‘fourth’Joseph ha-Kohen, and the ‘fifth’ Elijah ha-Kohen, but not the av-bet-din , that 
is, Nathan b. Abraham, from which we assume that the letter was written during the 
dispute, that is in ca. 1040; Jekuthiel the father was executed in Spain in 1039, and Moses 
emigrated to Fustat; he died in the Fayyum and left a son, Abu Ya'qub Jekuthiel, who was 
the ‘merchants’ representative’, see Goitein, Mediterranean Society, III, 207f. 


517 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


was due to them. ‘The courtis father to the orphans’, writes the Gaon, and 
he asks David b. Aaron to deal with the matter, in other words, to pay 
Moses what was due to him against a receipt (‘a deed of compensation’). 
The share of the deaf son should be sent by a diyoqne to the court, and the 
court (evidently in Ramla) would send him a receipt from the deaf son. 
Another instance of inheritance is mentioned in a fragment of another 
letter from Solomon b. Judah, to an unidentified haver, evidently in 
Fustat. The Gaon requests that he deal there with the inheritance of a 
certain Jacob, a flax merchant, who was in partnership with several 
people. One of the heirs is said to be unbalanced. Another fragment of a 
letter, also from Solomon b. Judah to some personality in Fustat, contains 
reproaches against the trustees who were withholding the property of an 
orphan. It should be publicly known, he writes, ‘that they are not trust¬ 
worthy’. Not that anyone had complained to him - neither the heir nor 
anyone on his behalf— but he felt that wrong was being done while looking 
into a query the trustees put to the yeshiva. He had studied the matter with 
the ‘third’ and the responsum on that query was agreed upon by both of 
them. Even the fact that the heir appealed to the gentile courts, he writes, 
does not justify the behaviour of those trustees. Their dishonourable 
behaviour can be seen in their refusal to take the oath, claiming that the 
father had absolved them of this before his death. According to law, it was 
their duty to bring the account before the heir in the presence of the court 
and to swear that the sums remaining to his credit were correct. We also 
find concern with the affairs of an orphan in a query and responsum copied 
by Yefet b. David. The responsum comes from the Gaon of Jerusalem, 
and it deals with a deposit of an orphan lost during the great pillage in 
Fustat. Apparently, this is also a responsum of Solomon b. Judah. Another 
instance of an ineritance is discussed in a letter to Abraham ha-Kohen b. 
Haggai in Fustat, who was appointed executor of the will of Abraham b. 
Meir al-AndalusI, together with Joshua b. Nathan al-Andalusi. The de¬ 
ceased had owed more than fifty dinars to Abu Bishr Solomon b. Semah 
al-‘Attar (‘the perfume dealer’), of Ramla, which had been given him by 
this Solomon, who was a generous man helpful to everyone, who 
happened to be in Ramla and needed help. We also find an orphan’s claim 
in a letter of the Jerusalemite ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, written in the time 
of Daniel b. Azariah. A power-of-attorney on behalf of the orphans was 
given to the writer in order to sue a certain b. al-Hulaybi (who is Khalaf b. 
Joseph; Hulayb, a diminutive of Halab, Aleppo), and the matter is being 
clarified in the court of the Gaon. B. al-Hulaybi evidently made claims that 
were incredible, to the effect that he owed practically nothing, and he was 
given the opportunity to go down to Ramla to re-examine his accounts. In 


518 



THE JUDICIAL PREROGATIVE [SECS. 752-756] 

the meantime, the Gaon left Jerusalem for Damascus, and the matter 
dragged on. 26 

[754] Other family matters also called for the intervention of the Gaon 
from time to time. In the remnant of a responsum written by Solomon b. 
Judah we read about a man whose marriage deed was written during hoi 
ha-mo‘ed. The Gaon replies that he is inclined to moderation in this matter. 
It seems that the couple were later divorced, and the Gaon is consulted and 
replies, with regard to the payments due the woman on the basis of the 
marriage deed. 

In 1015, many years before he became the Gaon, Solomon b. Judah was 
already dealing with a matter of divorce. He writes to Fustat, to Jacob ‘the 
candidate’ b. Joseph he-hasld, who later became dayyan in Aleppo. The 
letter is concerned with the payment of four dinars to a woman in Fustat, 
whose husband Solomon b. Khalaf al-Barql wants to divorce her if she 
does not join him in Palestine. A number of Maghribis who travel from 
Palestine on business are involved in this affair, such as Azhar b. Jonah the 
Spaniard. Nathan (who is Hiba) b. Zechariah is the woman’s repre¬ 
sentative, and he demands two dinars due her, held by Jacob ‘the candi¬ 
date’. The husband, Solomon, asks for those items belonging to him in 
their house in Fustat, her handiwork executed during the time they were 
together and whatever he bought her, while whatever remained in the 
house should be used to maintain his daughter, if she preferred to remain 
with her mother. The wife’s representative, on the other hand, stated that 
the woman swore she had no property of the kind her husband stipulates. 
She will be satisfied with four dinars; on receiving two dinars she will hand 
over the marriage deed and when it is confirmed that it has reached 
Palestine, Solomon will hand over the two remaining dinars, deposited 
for the time being with Solomon he-haver b. David, and they will be sent 
to Fustat in a diydqtte together with the deed of divorce, which has already 
been written and placed with Nathan. In about 1050, when Solomon b. 

36 The matter of Muhassin b. Husayn: 51. The responsum to Tiberias: Mosseri VIII 421 
(R19). The letter of Solomon b. Judah to David b. Aaron: 125; he was one of the leaders of 
the ‘Palestinian’ congregation in Fustat, see the Hebrew Index; he is mentioned also in TS 
10 J 5, f. 11, line 12, a court record from Fustat, in 1021/2; the matter of this inheritance is 
also mentioned in 230, the letter of Abraham the ‘fourth’ b. Samuel the ‘third’, to the 
Gaon. That this Mevasser had lived in Ramla, is recognisable in the fact that one of the sons 
was still in Ramla, see: 125, line 6. Jacob the flax merchant: 156. The matter of the 
unworthy trustees: 158. The query and responsum: 337. The letter to Abraham ha-Kohen 
b. Haggai: 159, and the matter of this inheritance is described in a deed from Fustat: BM 
Or 5561 A, f. 1; see on Joshua b. Nathan: Goitein, Letters , 111 ff; cf. idem , Shalem, 
1(1973/4), 47; Solomon b. Semah is already mentioned above. ‘Eli ha-Kohen: 445, line 
12f; the matter of the inheritance is also dealt with in 329, fragments from a court record 
dealing with an inheritance due to three brothers, sons of Mawhub b. Faraj: Mevorakh, 
Yefet and Joseph. The latter is seventeen and is ‘in the shefeld ’ (probably Ramla); the Gaon 
is asked, through deeds written in the court in Fustat, to instruct ‘the three elders’ 


519 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

Judah was nearing the end of his life, he writes to Sahlan b. Abraham 
(evidently) concerning a woman who married a man who seems to have 
been married already. Apparently the man was excommunicated and they 
are trying to influence the Gaon, even via pressure on the part of the 
governor of Jerusalem, to invalidate the ban. The letter is very faded and 
the matter rather illegible. We would have liked to know, for instance, 
what was the nature of this excommunication - were they speaking of a 
regulation against polygyny? Possibly we have here a case connected with 
the custom of Fustat, aimed at hindering polygyny. It emerges that there 
was quite an outcry in Fustat over this affair and even a serious rift between 
the two communities (evidently the ‘Palestinians’ and the ‘Babylonians’; the 
Karaites do not seem to be involved here).The addressee’s brother (if the 
addressee is Sahlan, the reference is to his brother Nehemiah), is staying in 
Jerusalem and he is asked to deal with this matter (on his return to Fustat, 
apparently). Abraham, son of the Gaon, also devotes some of his time to 
this affair. 27 

[755] The existence of a quarrel between the community and one of its 
members emerges from a letter addressed to Daniel b. Azariah, apparently 
in ca. 1060. The name of the writer is not preserved. It seems that the 
community objected to the fact that he had built a tdrima, that is a wooden 
structure, perhaps building it on the property of the heqdesh in Fustat or on 
some other site belonging to the synagogue. The writer applies to the 
Gaon, but out of a sense of fairness, submits his letter firstly to the local 
dayyan, ‘Eli ( he-haver ha-me'ulle) b. ‘Amram. ‘Eli did not merely read the 
letter, but kept it for a considerable time, and finally reformulated it as he 
saw fit, and the writer was not at all pleased by the wording in which it was 
eventually presented to the Gaon. 

We learn of the intervention of the Gaon in commercial differences and 
appeals to him in such matters, from a letter written by the sons of Benaya 
b. Musa of Alexandria, to Nehorai b. Nissim. A serious quarrel broke out 
among the Maghribi merchants and the people of Alexandria. The matter 
came before the shojet, evidently meaning the cadi, otherwise the word 
dayyan would have been used. The letter concerning this affair from His 
Excellency sayyidna al-rayyis, that is, the Gaon (evidently condemning the 
application to the gentile courts), aroused a stormy argument ‘in the 
presence of the judge’. A letter on the matter had already been written to 

(evidently the executors of the inheritance) to release the ‘inheritance to the sons of 
Mawhub out of their hands’. 

27 The fragment of the responsum: Mosseri, la, 20, at the head of the folio on which 63 is 
written, see there in the foreword; edited by Assaf, Mi-sijrut ha-ge’omm, 97, see his 
comments there, 91f. The matter of the divorce: 54. The second wife: 148; this letter was 
re-edited by Friedman, Ribbiiy nashim, 244f, and see there the readings offered by him and 
the discussion. On the custom of Fustat: Friedman, in Perspectives in Jewish Learning, IV 


520 



THE JUDICIAL PREROGATIVE [SECS. 752-756] 

the Gaon, and the writer intends to meet with him; apparently the letter is 
referring to the Gaon Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon. 28 

[756] At times the Gaon was directly applied to in order to obtain his 
intervention in correcting acts of violence and injustice. We find a letter 
from an anonymous writer, for instance, who was evidently fromjerusa- 
lem or Ramla, with the request that the Gaon inquire into the matter of a 
shop belonging (fully or in part) to the writer. A certain witness ( shahid, 
perhaps used in the meaning of mu'addal — an honest or trusty witness, 
which assumed the significance of a notary) by the name of al-Mu‘akkar 
put it up for sale. He asks that an account be made of the income from the 
sale and that he should receive his share, after a deduction of expenses. 

The yeshiva was also a sort of central institution of trusteeship which 
helped out merchants in situations where the accounting was complex or 
when a difference arose which could be settled out of court. In ca. 1065, we 
encounter the instance of a Maghribi merchant whose name has not been 
preserved, who was a partner of a certain Isaiah al-Fasi. The authorities 
demanded that the man pay for this Isaiah - during a time of stress and 
penury - sixty dinars, which Isaiah evidently owed to the authorities. The 
man in fact paid, and this was truly the salvation of his partner Isaiah. 
Three years went by, and Isaiah was asked to hand over the money to the 
head of the yeshiva in Jerusalem, Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon, but he 
shamelessly denied owing the money and claimed the very contrary, that 
the money was owed to him. The writer then turned to the court in Fustat, 
received from them a ma'ase bet-din (court document) and sent it ac¬ 
companied by a letter addressed to the Gaon, together with a letter from a 
certain Abu Ya‘qub, through whom the payment of the sixty dinars had 
been made, to the addressee, who was a relative or a friend and evidently 
staying in Ramla. At this point, he asks of that Palestinian to confirm that 
the court document and letters have arrived, and that he take the trouble to 
send them all to Jerusalem, to the yeshiva. Similarly, we have a court 
document from Fustat, written by the cantor and scribe Yefet b. David, 
which records the agreement arrived at ‘in the synagogue called of the 
Palestinians’ by Mufarrij b. Yefet b. Shu‘ayb ha-Darmashql and Jacob b. 
Joseph ha-Bavl! - that is to say, by a Damascene and a Baghdadi - ‘to 
accept the order of our Lord the Gaon that an oath be taken from him’. We 
have no details concerning the quarrel between the two, but it is clear that 
there was an appeal to the Jerusalem Gaon, and he responded that one of 

(1972), 20. It stands to reason that the letter was written to Sahlan b. Abraham, as it 
includes regards to his uncle, Saadia alUf. 

28 The tarima : 397; usually it meant an additional room built over the upper storey (tabaqa), 
see: Gil, Documents , 270, n. 1. The matter of Alexandria: TS 13 J 23, f. 3, a, lines 26-27; b, 
lines 7, 13-14; the sar ha-sarlm (‘prince of princes’) is also mentioned there, referring to 
Mevorakh b. Saadia, the Nagid, evidently. 


521 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 
the sides would have to depose an oath, though we do not know which one. 21 


Excommunication 

[757] It is self-evident that the court of the yeshiva had no right to deal in 
criminal law and could not officially impose physical punishment, such as 
flogging or imprisonment. It did, however, have a very effective means of 
punishment, in the form of excommunication. One of the greatest 
Muslim writers, al-Jahiz (of Basra, who died in 867) correctly grasped its 
significance. When he explains the meaning of a shojar (shabur in his 
tongue) he describes a kind of trumpet (buq) which originated in Persia. 
The Jews use it, for example, when the exilarch wants to punish a guilty 
person and forbids the people around him to have anything to do with 
him. Then they use the shofar. He says further that the ban on talking (to 
the banished) is not included among the punishments recorded in their 
books; but as the catholicus ( jathallq ) and the exilarch are not permitted to 
flog or imprison in Islamic countries, they can merely impose fines and 
forbid talking. Further on, he notes that the catholicus is frequently 
prejudiced in such matters and does not punish the bullies or the rulers’ 
favourites. (In the continuation, he quotes the behaviour of the catholicus 
Timotheus [there is a distortion here in the printed version of the text: 
TIman] who considered pronouncing an excommunication on the Nes- 
torian ‘Awn, when he learned that he kept concubines, but the latter 
threatened that he would accept Islam if he was excommunicated.) 

From the Geniza letters in my corpus, we learn that excommunication 
was in comparatively frequent use in those areas under the aegis of the 
Palestinian Gaon. Generally, it was the Gaon himself who pronounced the 
ban, and if it were a matter occurring within a community outside of 
Jerusalem, he would send instructions to pronounce an excommuni¬ 
cation, or give his authorisation to do so to the community which wished 
to declare the excommunication. The lighter form of the excommuni¬ 
cation, which was a curse, the patiah or shamta (or petiha in Babylonian 
parlance), is also mentioned once in the letter written by the Gaon Solo¬ 
mon b. Judah to his son Abraham, during the dispute with Nathan b. 
Abraham; and again in the letter of Nathan’s son, Abraham, evidently 
writing from Tyre in ca. 1089. 30 

29 The matter of the shop: 218, see the notes there. The Maghribi merchant: 520. The oath: 
TS20.117r, cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society , II, 158, 553, n. 11. 

30 Jahiz, Hayawdti (ed. Harun), IV, 27f; contrary to what Jahiz says and contrary to what we 
are inclined to assume, 370, b, lines 6—7, mentions the possibility of incarceration by the 
community, see on this below; cf. Mann, JQR, NS 10(1919/20), 342—345 (on the de facto 
existence of physical punishment, flogging, incarceration, according to the responsa of the 
geonim). The patiah: 127, line 31; 553, line 19; cf. the version of the Babylonian petiha: 


522 



EXCOMMUNICATION [SECS. 757-760] 


[758] Apparently, the most common reason for excommunication was 
the non-payment of debts; though naturally not until the person was 
found guilty by the court. In a letter, Solomon b. Judah requests Ephraim 
b. Shemaria to have such a debtor, evidently a Jerusalemite, excommuni¬ 
cated in Fustat. From the draft of a court record written in Daniel b. 
Azariah’s time, on 12 October 1057, it seems that a number of Maghribi 
merchants who were unwilling to accept the decision of the court regard¬ 
ing a certain money matter, or who perhaps applied to the gentile courts, 
were excommunicated. Apparently, not everyone observed the ban and 
special efforts had to be made to have it imposed, as we learn from the fact 
that Joseph b. Shemaria of Barqa, who was staying injerusalem, signs an 
obligation to treat all the decisions of Daniel b. Azariah and Elijah ha- 
Kohen (the av-bet-din) with respect and obedience, and to not maintain any 
contact with the excommunicated individuals. ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, 
the Jerusalem parnas, who deals with the collection of debts due to a 
certain b. al-Hijaziyya, mentions in his letter the pronouncement of a type 
of excommunication known as the herem setam (‘anonymous excommuni¬ 
cation’) on whoever owes this man money (‘dinar’ or ‘dirham’), or goods, 
or commission. Such a ban was proclaimed in the entire region of the Rif 
(the Delta) on Hosha'na rabba, and renewed on every holiday. A court 
document from Fustat, enacted in August 1030, in the presence of Abra¬ 
ham son of the Gaon, included the decision to excommunicate al-Ashqar 
(‘the red-head’) Salman b. Shabib, who refused to accept the decision of 
the court to pay four dinars to Sulayman the smith, through the latter’s 
representative, Yefet ha-Levi b. Tobiah; and what is more, who ran riot in 
the court and cursed the son of the Gaon and the judges, even announcing 
that he would appeal to the gentile courts. It is interesting that in this 
instance, there is no mention at all of receiving an authorisation to pro¬ 
nounce the excommunication from the Gaon in Jerusalem, perhaps be¬ 
cause the son of the Gaon was present. The matter of a ban imposed 
because of an application to the gentile courts is also encountered in a letter 
ofjosiah Gaon to the community of Rafiah, mentioned above; the heirs 
who took over property with the help of the qd'id, the Fatimid commander 
and governor, are to be excommunicated until they return the property, 
and the excommunication shall also apply to Sahl, the brother of the major 
defendant, if he does not appear together with his sister in the grand court 
and declare there what was taken from the inheritance. 31 

Aptowitzer, JQR, NS 4(1913/14), 126: ‘I decreed to declare a curse on him at the gate of 
the yeshiva and this petiha was written against him, so that he be cursed in all places ... so 
you should curse him always every day . . . and any synagogue where this petiha is shown 
has to curse him immediately’. 

31 The excommunication of a debtor: 78. The court record: 393. ‘Eli ha-Kohen: 445, lines 8f. 
The court document: 102. Josiah Gaon: 43. 


523 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


[759] Ephraim b. Shemaria turns to the Gaon and asks him what 
judgment should be passed on a shopkeeper for whom carpenters built 
shelves in his shop during the holiday, and on the sabbath within the 
holiday week. In the court in Fustat, opinions were divided as to whether 
he should be flogged or fined, or both, and also excommunicated. In a 
letter from Ascalon to Shemaiah he-haver the Jerusalemite, which has 
been mentioned above, the writer, who is being persecuted together with 
his family, asks that the yeshiva place a ban on those who harass him. 
According to him this is the only means by which an end can be put to the 
mischief being done. It seems that officials of the yeshiva also had the 
power to declare an excommunication apart from the Gaon, and perhaps 
someone who was merely a haver of the yeshiva also had this prerogative. 
We find this assumption supported by the draft of a letter from Ephraim b. 
Shemaria to the Gaon Solomon b. Judah, on the matter of the cantor 
whom Solomon nicknamed Sabiq, and who arrived in Fustat with a 
recommendation from the Gaon, but whom the community refused to 
receive, claiming that a ban had been imposed on him by Joseph ha-Kohen 
the ‘fourth’ b. Solomon Gaon. There was a great quarrel about it in Fustat, 
and Ephraim asks the Gaon to send him a letter in which he explicitly states 
that the ban is now void. 32 

[760] Not infrequently, excommunication was used in some communi¬ 
ties as a weapon against the opposition, or creators of rifts, as they were 
generally defined, and also against factors outside the ‘Palestinian’ congre¬ 
gation, especially the ‘Babylonians’, who at times had claims that were not 
acceptable to thejerusalem Gaon. This is illustrated in the case of the leader 
of the ‘Babylonians’ in Fustat, who wanted to deprive Ephraim b. Shema¬ 
ria of the right to supervise the markets (meaning the slaughtering, which 
was done in the markets). He was excommunicated in Jerusalem on 
Monday, 25 Sivan (evidently: AM 4789, that is, 9 June AD 1029); 
‘we assembled in the cave, a great multitude, and took out the Torah 
scrolls and proclaimed a ban on all those that decree unrighteous decrees 
and on all that write grievousness (Is., x.T) and deceiving statements 
and who arouse dissent between brethren in order to achieve their am¬ 
bitions’. At the same time, Nathan he-haver proclaimed a similar ban in 
Fustat. 

An occurrence of a figure of the opposition being excommunicated was 
that of Abraham b. Aaron al-Basri, cantor and preacher, who ‘stirred up 
trouble’ against Ephraim b. Shemaria, ‘slighted him and those who or¬ 
dained him, the dead and living geonim of Israel, and spoke obscenely’; 
hence ‘he was excommunicated and banned’. Abraham the son of the 

32 The query from Fustat: 336; the handwriting is that of Ephraim b. Shemaria, but there are 

eight signatories and he is not one of them. Ascalon: 526. The episode of Sabiq: 334, a, line 16f. 


524 



EXCOMMUNICATION [SECS. 757-760] 


Gaon writes about this to the community of Tatai. The community is 
required to cut off any contact with him, and the ban also applied to 
anyone who assisted or maintained any relationship with him. During the 
succeeding Gaon’s day, that is of Daniel b. Azariah, we also find that 
excommunication is being enacted towards the rivals of the leader of the 
‘Palestinians’ in Fustat. Two fragments of a letter written by the Gaon’s 
scribe to ‘Eli b. ‘Amram contain a licence granted him by the Gaon to 
proclaim a ban on anyone who disobeys him or to firstly announce a ban 
on Yefet b. David b. Shekhania, the cantor and scribe who is known to us 
from many letters in the Geniza. The writ of excommunication against 
him had already been prepared at the yeshiva, together with all the other 
necessary documents, in two identical copies, and these were sent to 
Abu’l-Hasan and Abu’l-Tayyib. It was not important which of them 
received the documents first, the proclamation of the ban had to be done 
quickly. The letter had to be read in the synagogue, its clauses clearly 
presented, and it had to be read without errors, for it contained matters of 
law. The letter also mentions the teacher Abu’l-‘AmIrayn al-Sha‘ram 
al-Maghribl, who has already lost much of his public stature and upon 
whom there is no need to ‘waste’ an excommunication. Nevertheless he 
should be punished and taught a lesson, for if such a thing had occurred in 
Jerusalem, writes the Gaon (or rather his scribe), the people ofjerusalem 
would have firstly jailed him and afterwards expelled him fromjerusalem 
(perhaps meaning that this was actually done to him when he was in 
Jerusalem). From the same letter, it emerges that the Fustat leader ‘Eli b. 
‘Amram enjoys the backing of two of Fustat’s notables, and at the end of 
the letter, he is asked to thank them and pray for their welfare. Below we 
shall encounter further matters connected with excommunication and 
ostracisation in the discussions on the power-struggles for leadership of 
the yeshiva, and also in the discussion on relations with the Karaites. 33 


Aid for individuals 

[761] We have quite a number of documents with evidence of assistance 
being given to individuals by the geonim through requests for support and 

33 The excommunication relating to Fustat: the letter of Solomon b. Judah, 79 , lines 27f; it is 
not clear who is this Nathan he-haver. Abraham b. Aaron: 93 , lines 8f; Tatai, a locality in 
the Delta, some 14 kilometres south-east ofTanta, see more details on it: Golb, JNES, 
33(1974), 142f. Daniel b. Azariah: 370 ; the person mentioned there is b. Shekhania, with 
no further details, hence Goitein, ha-Yishuv, 182, assumes that he is referring to Mansur, 
Yefet’s brother; see in the notes to 370 , details on the assumed identity of the people of 
Fustat who are mentioned there. See the discussion on the subject of excommunication 
according to the responsa of the geonim: Mann, JQR, NS 10(1919/20), 348ff and see the 
discussion in Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 331ff. 


525 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


recommendations. We find Abraham, for instance, the son of the Gaon, 
writing as usual on behalf of his father, to David b. Aaron in Fustat, asking 
him to help Sedaqa b. Menahem who intends to go down to Egypt with 
his family. At the same time, the Gaon himself writes to Sahlan b. 
Abraham, leader of the ‘Babylonians’ in Fustat, on the same subject. Then 
again we find Abraham, the Gaon’s son, writing - it seems to Alexandria - 
asking for support for a man who fled to Damascus because of the pressure 
of taxes, and who while en route to Palestine was attacked by robbers and 
left wounded and penniless. He managed to get to Jerusalem and now 
wished to go to Egypt and obtain enough help there to enable him to 
return to his own country. The main request implied in the letter is to 
organise a campaign to which every member of the community would 
contribute and thus enough money would be accumulated to make his 
journey possible. One assumes that someone from a distant land is being 
referred to, perhaps from somewhere within the Byzantine empire. In 
another letter of recommendation to Sahlan b. Abraham, Solomon b. 
Judah writes about the affairs of a man we cannot identify, who is leaving 
for Fustat. According to the Gaon ‘he is one of our cherished... his place is 
with us and he is like a favourite son . . .’ Solomon b. Judah is generally 
given to cultivate and praise those who are active in public matters, and he 
writes a letter - evidently at the request of Sahlan b. Abraham - to 
Nethanel ha-Levi b. Halfon in Fustat, full of praise for his great generosity 
and his abundant gifts. People from the inner circle of the yeshiva, rela¬ 
tives and intimates of the leaders of the yeshiva and its personalities, were 
also exploiting its prestige and writing to Fustat in order to help individ¬ 
uals. Thus we find the grandson of Samuel the ‘third 1 b. Hosha'na, ‘Eli 
ha-Mumhe b. Abraham, when writing to Ephraim b. Shemaria, repeat¬ 
edly asking after Abu’l-Faraj b. ‘Eli, a cantor from Mosul whom he 
recommended to the people of Fustat. No fewer than five of his letters 
contain queries as to the welfare of that cantor. The Jerusalem cantor Judah 
b. Abraham ha-Ma‘aravI (the Maghribi) b. Faraj writes in ca. 1065 to the 
Fustat haver, ‘Eli b. ‘ Amram, asking him to help Saadia the teacher, who 
arrived in Fustat to arrange his tax matters with the man in charge of the 
jaliya (he has already been mentioned in the discussion on taxes), for apart 
from this assistance, he is not in need of any pesfqa, that is, a regular 
allowance from the community. ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, thejerusalem 
parnas close to the geonim includes in one of his letters to the Fustat 
parnas, ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim, some comments on Abu ‘Imran Musa 
al-hazan al-'ajamT — evidently someone of European origin. It seems that 
‘Eli b. Hayyim was interested in the fate of this man, and thejerusalemite 
informs him that he has arrived safely from Tinnis, and that a letter from 
him had been received from there. Shortly before the Turcomans’ con- 


526 



AID FOR INDIVIDUALS [SEC. 761] 


quest, in November 1070, the son of the Jerusalem Gaon, Abiathar ha- 
Kohen b. Elijah, writes to the same parnas of Fustat, ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. 
Hayyim, and asks for information on a man who came from Europe ( bilad 
al-ijranj — ‘the country of the Franks’). A letter of recommendation of an 
unknown date, evidently written from the yeshiva, asks for the help of‘all 
the communities in the shafrir of the land of Egypt’ for a poor woman 
burdened with little children, who cannot support herself by working. 
(Shafrir , i.e. Fustat; seejer., xliii: 10, ‘royal pavilion’ in the King James 
version. In Jewish traditional interpretation, it is said to mean ‘a tent’, 
which was also the original meaning of Fustat.) M 


‘Palestinians’ versus ‘Babylonians’ 

[762] I have already spoken of the division of authority in the diaspora 
during this period. According to tradition and the historic connections, 
the communities of Egypt came under the authority of the Palestinian 
yeshiva, the Sanhedrin. Waves of immigrants coming from Iraq, 
however, caused the setting up of Babylonian communities even in Pal¬ 
estine, and there were ‘Babylonian’ communities in Ramla, in Tiberias, 
and other places as well. The immigrants from Iraq also established 
‘Babylonian’ communities in Egypt and the Maghrib, the largest of these 
being the ‘Babylonian’ (in Arabic al-'irdqiyin) community in Fustat. As the 
Palestinian Gaon was the leader and the recognised representative of all the 
Jews in the Fatimid caliphate, the Palestinian yeshiva also established ties 
with the ‘Babylonian’ community in Fustat, and with the ‘Babylonian’ 
communities elsewhere, evidently. The Geniza documents have supplied 
us with some information on the relations between the ‘Babylonians’ and 
the ‘Palestinians’ in Fustat, and also the extent of the involvement of the 
yeshivot, both the Palestinian yeshiva and that of Pumbedita, in the affairs 
of the communities in Fustat. One should bear in mind that in that period 
there was a deep sense of identity between the congregation and the 
synagogue; in fact the word keneset or kenesiyya, in Hebrew and in Ara¬ 
maic ( kenishtd ) and Arabic ( kantsa ), is frequently used in the sense of 
community, or congregation. For instance, we findjosiah Gaon, at the 
outset of the eleventh century, addressing the batte kenesiyydt, ‘which sit in 

34 The assistance to Sedaqa b. Menahem: 59 , 60 . The man who fled because of taxes: 123 . The 
letter to Sahlan: 144 , see what is said there in the introduction. On Nethanel: 140 . ‘Eli b. 
Abraham: 231 — 235 . Judah the cantor: 456 ; he is mentioned a number of times in my 
collection, and the beginning of his deathbed will has been preserved; the son of Moses is 
also mentioned in two letters, see the Hebrew Index; from the name, one can see that this is 
a Maghribi family which settled in Jerusalem. ‘Eli ha-Kohen: 451 . Abiathar; 547 , b, lines 
1-2. The poor woman: 570 . 


527 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

righteousness’, referring, of course, to the two congregations, the ‘Pal¬ 
estinians’ and the ‘Babylonians’. 

In Solomon b. Judah’s day, there was some form of perpetual compe¬ 
tition between him and Hayy Gaon, regarding their influence in Fustat. 
The letters of Solomon b. Judah to Abraham b. Sahlan and to his son 
Sahlan, heads of the ‘Babylonians’ in Fustat, seem to be evidence of the fact 
that there was quite a degree of understanding between the Palestinian 
yeshiva and the Babylonian yeshiva in the Egyptian capital. The ‘Babylo¬ 
nians’ even sent money to Jerusalem in their hour of need, and there are 
letters to this effect, such as that in which the Gaon thanks them for the 
sum of seven and a quarter dinars. Babylonian and Persian merchants who 
had settled in Qayrawan during the first half of the tenth century were 
evidently also in the habit of sending financial aid to thejerusalem yeshiva, 
though their principal contact was with the Babylonian yeshivot, which 
received the larger sums of money. This was still the situation at the 
beginning of the eleventh century, when we discover Joseph and Nissim, 
sons of Berekhia, sending instructions to Joseph b. Jacob ibn ‘Awkal in 
Fustat concerning money to be forwarded to the yeshivot. Here the sum 
mentioned is 200 dinars, of which ten are to go to the shamiytn (Pal¬ 
estinians) and the remainder to the ‘iraqiytn (Babylonians), consisting of 
money orders from various people. 

In the case of Solomon b. Judah in particular, it seems that all he wanted 
was to maintain good relations with both the ‘Babylonians’ in Fustat, and 
Hayy Gaon. In one of his early letters, evidently written in around 1015, a 
decade before he became Gaon, to Isaac ha-Kohen b. Abraham (Ibn Furat) 
in Fustat, Solomon b. Judah notes that his son, Yahya, is staying in 
Baghdad, where he is being taught by Hayy Gaon (‘applies himself to the 
halakhot gedolot’). A letter from Yahya, he writes, arrived together with 
one from Hayy Gaon (to Solomon b. Judah, apparently). 35 

[763] Actually the relations went smoothly for some time. We find a 

35 Josiah Gaon: 41 , line 4. Solomon b. Judah on receiving the moneys: 104 . The letter of the 
sons of Berekhia: Bodl MS Heb, d 65, f. 9, edited by Assaf, Tarbiz, 20(1948/9), 179ff; in 
Assaf, line 22: read: ‘aynan, that is in gold; of these sums of money it was said that they 
were from safaqat tnujiaraqa; safaqat - handshakes, but the meaning here seems to be: 
money orders. Solomon b. Judah on his son Yahya: 53 , margin, lines 13f; in the same 
letter, Solomon b. Judah also mentions his two other sons, Abraham and Mansur; in later 
letters, Abraham is mentioned, and one does not know what happened to the other sons. 
Mann, JQR, NS 8(1917/8), 348f, notes this letter, in which there is evidence that Hayy 
Gaon resided in Baghdad (not in Pumbedita any longer). Connections established be¬ 
tween the Pumbedita yeshiva and the Palestinian yeshiva are apparently shown in a 
fragment of a letter from Sherira Gaon and his son Hayy (then av-bet-din), dated 13 Av 
1300 Sel. (18 July AD 989); this was sent to the rdsh ha-yeshiva, obviously meaning the 
Palestinian Gaon. In the part that has been preserved, it says among other things, ‘and we 
also demand from you, head of the yeshiva, may you live forever, to please order this letter 
to be read out publicly, since this was frequently the custom regarding [the letters of] our 


528 



‘PALESTINIANS’ VERSUS ‘BABYLONIANS’ (SECS. 762-772] 


letter from Ephraim b. Shemaria to Solomon b, Judah, however, in which 
Ephraim very emphatically denies the Jerusalem Gaon’s claim that he is 
carrying on a correspondence with the Babylonians - the yeshivot and the 
exilarch. Ephraim even feels the need to quote from the exilarch’s letter to 
him: ‘and here we have begun to write to you in order to make you write 
to us more frequently’, and he quotes this as proof that it was not he who 
had written. They had written to him in the hope of moving him to 
establish relations with them, or so he says in justification. As to Hayy 
Gaon, he writes, it is true that he received a letter from him which was sent 
to Fustat together with a letter to Samuel ibn al-Tahirti, but as it contained 
a slanderous statement about the Palestinian yeshiva, he thought it suf¬ 
ficient to reply to the letter in order to refute the slander and to avoid a 
quarrel. He denies having sent Hayy Gaon a query on a matter of law 
(about eating meat after fasting); someone else must have sent the query 
and the responsum reached him, that is, Ephraim. Ephraim describes 
further the beginning of the quarrel, which is essentially between the 
‘Palestinians’ and ‘Babylonians’ in Fustat. There are some who want to 
appoint Abraham b. Sahlan as the dayyan in Fustat and to dismiss Ephraim 
from the post. (Abraham b. Sahlan was one of the leaders of the ‘Babylo¬ 
nians’.) Ephraim points out that the relations between Abraham b. Sahlan 
and himself have always been good, but a letter from Solomon b. Judah 
mentioning complaints that Ephraim had brought to his notice, landed in 
Hasan’s hands. We do not know who this Hasan is; he may be Yefet b. 
David b. Shekhania, the cantor and scribe of the ‘Palestinian’ congrega¬ 
tion, or perhaps Tobiah al-Nili, or Yefet rosh ha-qahal (head of the com¬ 
munity), who are mentioned in some of the letters in my collection. This 
Hasan, together with the son of al-Raqqi - perhaps referring to David b. 
al-Raqqi— and b. Talyun (Samuel ha-Kohen b. Avtalyon) organised a sort 
of faction against Ephraim b. Shemaria and they are the people trying to 
remove him from his position. Solomon b. Judah mentions a letter which 
arrived from the ‘head of the yeshiva of Babylonia’, undoubtedly meaning 
Hayy Gaon. It seems that the letter in question reached Fustat and it dealt 
with the matter of the Jerusalemite prisoners about whom Solomon b. 
Judah wrote frequently, namely those who were imprisoned because of 
their debts dating from the events of 1024. Solomon b. Judah hints at the 
disagreement between them, for Hayy Gaon - it is implied - is rather 

forefathers. We explicitly mention that: it should be read under the authority of the head of 
the yeshiva. Please do so and let us know, without delay, that our request has been fulfilled 
and the letter read out in public and that the persons whose names were mentioned in it had 
blessings recited on them, as we specified’, etc. This fragment, ENA 4009, f. 15, was 
edited by Mann, Texts , I, 106 (it was previously edited by Marmorstein, see details in 
Mann, ibid.; Mann assumed at first that the letter was written to one of the communities, 
contrary to Marmorstein’s opinion, but changed his mind afterwards). 


529 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


remote and unaware of the situation as it really is. We also have a letter 
written to Solomon b. Judah by one of the Babylonian dignitaries, perhaps 
Hayy Gaon himself, or perhaps the exilarch of that time, Hezekiah b. 
David, but the handwriting is that of the scribe of that personality. It is 
mainly a courtesy letter; the Babylonian writer asks Solomon b. Judah to 
pray ‘tomorrow, on the feast of rnassot (Passover), also on his behalf and on 
behalf of the Jews in Palestine, Egypt, Damascus and Sova (Aleppo), and 
so on, and also together with ‘the elders of Jerusalem and the elders of 
Ramla who honour us’ - a clear allusion to the ‘Babylonians’ in these 
places. The writer also mentions the son of the Gaon, Yahya, and hopes he 
will see him shortly and in good health and that he derives satisfaction - 
‘from all your sons’. 36 

[764] Hayy Gaon’s letter of Tevet Sel. 1349, that is December AD 1037 
orjanuary AD 1038 (Tevet in that year began on 13 December) to Sahlan 
b. Abraham, the leader of the ‘Babylonians’ in Fustat, bears witness to his 

36 Ephraim b. Shemaria’s letter: MS Reinach. As to the identity of David b. al-Raqqi, the 
editor may have erred, and perhaps David b. Aaron al-Barqi was meant there; or David 
ha-Levi b. Isaac, who will be discussed below; with regard to the accusations made by 
Solomon b. Judah that Ephraim b. Shemaria asked for the guidance of Hayy Gaon, we 
have some evidence that this had some foundation, and this is a letter from al-Mahdiyya 
written by Samuel b. Abraham to Ephraim. The letter is written on vellum and is in a poor 
state of preservation. We find here ‘and as our Master Hayy Gaon, may God bless him, 
[wrote] his responsum to this query .. . what I said, and I regretted very much that you 
were not allowed to read ... in order to grasp it much better and be convinced that what I 
wrote was true’, etc. From the continuation, it emerges that the writer dealt with a 
difference in matters of haldkhd, concerning merchants’negotiations. SeeMSs. Schechter, 
attheJTS, NY, No. 13, from line 10; to be included in the collection of documents relating 
to Babylonia that 1 am at present preparing for publication. Samuel ha-Kohen b. Avtalyon 
had the title ha-mumhe, and afterwards also haver, he had strong connections with the 
Jerusalem yeshiva, see the Hebrew Index; his struggle with Ephraim b. Shemaria is also 
mentioned in 67 ; it seems that he stemmed from a family of geonim, for in 107 Solomon b. 
Judah calls him: the great-grandson of the righteous and geonim; and in some documents 
he is called rosh ha-qahal. Mann has assembled a number of data relating to this discussion 
(Jews, II, 97ff): TS 8J 32, f. 8 (from 1024), contains the signatures of Abraham b. Sahlan 
and Samuel ha-Kohen rosh ha-qahal b. Avtalyon; in TS 8 J 4, f. 2 (1027): Samuel ha-Kohen 
b. Talyun; TS 8 J 6, f. 18 (part b, the same year) signed hy Ephraim b. Shemaria together 
with Samuel ha-Kohen b. Talyun; their names are also mentioned together in the court 
record: TS 13 J 5, f. 1 (1028); and in TS 8 J 4, f. 3 (the same year); Samuel ha-Kohen rosh 
ha-qahal b. R. Talyun; called so also in TS 8 K 20, f. 1, and in TS 8 J 4, f. 1 (the same time); 
he was later granted the title haver: Samuel ha-Kohen he-haver b. R. Avtalyon: TS 13 J 1, 
f. 9, Nisan 1352 Sel. (AD 1041). See: ENA NS 7, f. 25, a court record from the synagogue 
in Fustat, of 5 Tevet 1339 Sel., Thursday, 7 December 1027, signed also by Samuel 
ha-Kohen rosh ha-qahal b. R. Avtalyon. The letter about the prisoners: 65 , lines 8ff. The 
Babylonian letter: 174 . Hayy Gaon’s true attitude to the Palestinian yeshiva is also reflected 
in one of his responsa: '. .. but in the days of R. Ashi and Ravina peace reigned in 
Babylonia whereas in Palestine there was much forced baptism and learning was in great 
decline there, so the people who were there migrated to Babylonia, such as R. Avin and R. 
Dimi; among the total of immigrant scholars who came down to Babylonia, the majority 
were scholars from Palestine ...’ See Sefer ha-eshkol, II, 47ff. (Hilekhot sefer tdra), cf. 
Poznanski, Hakedem, 1 (1907/8), 143. 


530 



‘PALESTINIANS' VERSUS ‘BABYLONIANS’ [SECS. 762-772] 


intense involvement in the affairs of that city and the relations between its 
congregations and its prominent personalities. The letter deals with com¬ 
plaints against Sahlan made by members of the ‘Babylonian’ congrega¬ 
tion. The complainants are Sulayman b. Mubarak (Solomon b. 
Mevorakh), Ephraim b. al-‘AkkI, Mubarak b. Abraham, while the Gaon 
is aware of the fact that the majority of‘Babylonians’ support Sahlan. He 
promises to ask Hesed al-Tustarl (Abu Nasr Fadl b. Sahl) to stand by 
Sahlan. The Gaon also mentions a letter he has received from Hasan 
al-‘AqulI (al-‘Aqula, the ancient Aramaic name for Kufa) undoubtedly one 
of the emigrants from Iraq to Egypt whom the Gaon knew. The passage in 
which Hayy Gaon notes that he received a letter from Solomon b. Judah 
al-FasI, and that he was very happy with it, is particularly interesting in 
this connection. He asks Sahlan to let him know what is the position and 
status of the Jerusalem Gaon. Naturally, this does not mean that the 
Palestinian Gaon was unknown to him. 37 

[765] From the two succeeding generations after these letters, we have 
no information on contact between the Babylonian and Palestinian yeshi- 
vot. However, on 4 July 1091, we find Abiathar ha-Kohen Gaon writing 
from Tyre to the heads of the Jews in Iraq, or more specially, the head of 
the yeshiva of Baghdad and Hezekiah the exilarch, mentioning ‘all the 
princes and dignitaries and heads of synagogues . . . and cantors, school¬ 
teachers, and parndsTm of the communities . . .’. The subject of the letter is a 
case of the levirate procedure, being an answer to the letter of Kohen- 
Sedeq b. Joseph ha-Kohen, the av-bet-din of the yeshiva of Baghdad. 38 

37 The letter of Hayy Gaon: Mosseri I a 5, edited by Chapira, REJ, 82 (1926), 327f. Hayy 
Gaon died on the 7th day of Passover that year, 18 April 1038, that is, three to four months 
after writing this letter; cf. on the letter: Mann, Texts, I, 118. Instead of Ephraim b. al-‘Ani 
(a, line 11) read: b. al-‘Akki. Chapira understood, with regard to Solomon b. Judah (p. 330 
ibid.): ‘Je te prie de me renseigner sur sa situation et sur le rang qu’il occupe' (b, lines 3-4). 
However, Hayy Gaon knew the Jerusalem Gaon well, as his son Yahya studied Torah 
with him. Chapira, himself, noted this (p. 326 ibid.) but assumed that the question 
stemmed from the uncertain standing of Solomon b. Judah at that time, when the rift with 
Nathan b. Abraham was taking place. But this quarrel had not broken out as yet at that 
moment, as we shall see below. On the links between Hayy Gaon and the Tustari brothers 
see Gil, ha-Tustarim, 46ft'. Evidence of the close connections between the ‘Babylonians’ in 
Fustat and Hayy Gaon, can also be seen in TS 16.318, a letter to the latter from ‘the 
communities which pray in the synagogue of the Babylonians named after his yeshiva’. A 
letter is mentioned there written by Hayy Gaon to Abraham b. Sahlan. Cf. Mann, JQR, 
NS 7(1916/7), 477f. Some nine months after Hayy Gaon’s aforementioned letter to Sahlan 
(and about six months after the death of the Gaon), Daniel b. Azariah, who is in 
al-Mahdiyya in the Maghrib, writes to Sahlan, and among other things, he mentions 
‘what you have undergone on the part of people whose behaviour is known’ and the 
sorrow he felt because of this, and he expresses his pleasure that the intervention of Abu 
Nasr (the Tustari) helped to settle Sahlan’s affairs satisfactorily; see 344 , a, lines 9ff. 

38 Abiathar’s letter: 553; possibly rdshe yeshwot, in the plural, is said there, for in the florid 
opening sentences, one can still decipher: ‘Mata mal/siyya u-fimibeditd ’; Hezekiah the 
exilarch is certainly the grandson of Hezekiah, who was exilarch during Hayy Gaon’s 


531 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


[766] As we have already seen, there was agitation in Fustat and the 
marshalling of supporters for the appointment of a dayyan, and a faction 
existed which hoped to appoint Abraham b. Sahlan, the ‘Babylonian’, in 
place of the ‘Palestinian’ Ephraim b. Shemaria, as dayyan of the com¬ 
munity. There are comparatively numerous references to this situation in 
my collection. Solomon b. Judah wishes to make peace, as we have seen, 
but it seems that he also wants to introduce new arrangements, and as he 
himself admits, it is these very arrangements which have caused the 
excitement and the renewed schism. It appears that the differences were 
about the procedures in court: when the two leaders (the haverim) of the 
two congregations sat in court together, who was to preside and how were 
they to address one another. Solomon b. Judah turns to Ephraim b. 
Shemaria and appeals to him to get along harmoniously with Abraham 
he-haver. It seems that one of the innovations introduced by the Pal¬ 
estinian yeshiva, even before Solomon b. Judah became Gaon, was the 
granting of the title haver to the heads of the ‘Babylonian’ congregation, 
referring here to a father and son, Abraham b. Sahlan and Sahlan. In this 
manner, they hoped in fact to have both congregations come under one 
authority, that of the Palestinian yeshiva. ‘For formerly you were under 
your own authority and now you have entered the authority of God and 
the authority of Israel’; writes Solomon b. Judah to Ephraim b. Shemaria, 
who was in any case under the authority of the Palestinian yeshiva before¬ 
hand. However, the intention here was to create the impression of a new 
common framework, which called for a solemn and serious approach. 39 

[767] Of the efforts to establish a common framework for the two 
congregations in Fustat, one can also learn from three Geniza fragments in 
the handwriting of Ephraim b. Shemaria, which relate to the discussions 
being held in Fustat on this matter. The first is a fragment of a record of a 
discussion held in the ‘Palestinians’ synagogue, with the participation of 
the ‘Babylonians’, headed by Abu Ishaq Aluf, who is Abraham b. Sahlan. 

time, and the son of David, who is mentioned in Solomon b. Judah’s day; see below in the 
discussion on the exilarchs. As to Kohen Sedeq b. Joseph ha-Kohen, he is apparently a 
descendant of the Kohen Sedeq who was head of the Pumbedita yeshiva in the first half of 
the tenth century; at any rate there is no foundation to Mann’s assumption in Jews, I, 193, 
that he was a relative of the family of the priestly geonim in Palestine. 

39 See the letters of Solomon b. Judah, 75 , 84 ; cf. Mann, Texts, I, 311, 319, n. 28a. Abraham 
b. Sahlan and Ephraim b. Shemaria sign together on Friday, an intermediate day of the 
holiday (Tabernacles or Passover?) 1333 Sel. (1022): TS 10J 5, f. 11; from this and other 
documents, it is evident that there was a common court for the two congregations in 
Fustat before Solomon b. Judah’s time as well; this is also clear from the documents signed 
jointly by Abraham b. Sahlan and Samuel ha-Kohen b. Avtalyon, who was also of the 
‘Palestinian’ congregation. The aforementioned document is an obligation to Samuel 
ha-Kohen b. Avtalyon (Isma‘11 b. Talyun) himself, that the signatories (there are six more 
in addition to the abovementioned two) agree in advance to hand over to him the matter of 
ransoming two captives, and will recognise the sum paid by him. 


532 



‘PALESTINIANS’ VERSUS ‘BABYLONIANS' [SECS. 762-772] 


From the remaining fragment, it can be understood that there was a 
consideration of the qualities and failings of each of the yeshivot, the 
Babylonian (Pumbedita) and the Palestinian. The second fragment also 
deals with a similar debate, held jointly with the ‘Babylonians’ and the 
‘Palestinians’, and it belongs to the draft of a letter to Solomon b. Judah, in 
which Ephraim b. Shemaria asks to be informed of the main points made 
there. The reason for the discussion was Solomon b. Judah’s demand that 
they continue to maintain a common court of law. Abraham b. Sahlan 
objected to the idea and claimed that each one should sit in judgment in his 
own synagogue, he in the ‘Babylonian’, which was ‘his authority’, and 
Ephraim in that of the ‘Palestinians’. Ephraim b. Shemaria attacked this 
view and claimed that it would lead to a rupture. Ephraim ha-Kohen b. 
Abraham, one of the leaders of the Palestinian congregation, also spoke in 
the same vein. Nevertheless, Abraham b. Sahlan stood by his opinion and 
opposed the existence of a joint court of law, pointing to the example of 
Iraq, where they had four matha'ib (from mathiba, yeshiva, in plural; by 
which he evidently meant that there were four courts of law in Baghdad). 
This discussion continued until late in the afternoon, when Ephraim b. 
Shemaria decided to end it and demanded that they write a letter in the 
name of some of the community leaders (‘the elders’) to al-rayyis, that is to 
the head of the Jerusalem yeshiva, in order to make him aware that it was 
not Ephraim b. Shemaria who had caused the rift. Indeed, such a letter was 
written and a fragment of it has been preserved in the Geniza, which is the 
third fragment. Whereas the former letter was a personal one from 
Ephraim to the Gaon, this letter was written on behalf of the community, 
which met on shabbat wa-yiggash with ‘the two haverim’ (undoubtedly 
Ephraim b. Shemaria and Abraham b. Sahlan); the chairman of the dis¬ 
cussion was Ephraim ha-Kohen b. Abraham. In this fragment, there is 
also mention of that letter of Solomon b. Judah in which he asks these ‘two 
haverim’ to keep the peace between them (‘it is worth being friendly, and 
be strong with the help of their Rock, and to live as one heart and one 
man’). 40 

[768] Afterwards there was a quarrel between the two communities 
over a matter of bigamy, which I have mentioned above. Apart from this, 
we learn of a serious rift over the question of the income from ritual 
slaughtering. Hayy Gaon was undoubtedly involved in this affair. Solo¬ 
mon b. Judah writes about it in a letter to Ephraim b. Shemaria, evidently 
in the summer of 1029. According to the letter, he is prepared to go as far 
as pronouncing the excommunication of the opposing side, in order to 
prevent the control of the markets and kashriit, that is to say the income 

40 See the fragments 320, 321, 322; cf. Goitein, Schirmann Jubilee Volume, 74f; see the 

introductions to these documents in my collection. 


533 



THEJEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


from slaughtering, by the ‘Babylonian’ leader, evidently Abraham b. 
Sahlan. The ‘Babylonians’ are not at all inclined to compromise on this 
issue, and the Jerusalem Gaon asks bitterly: ‘Do they really want to uproot 
the Palestinian yeshiva from the land of Egypt, so as to make its name 
disappear?’ It seems that the ‘Palestinians’ proposal was to assign one of the 
markets only to the ‘Babylonians’, and in the Gaon’s words: ‘just as this 
place is in my name, there will be another in his name, this one in the name 
of the Babylonians and the other in the name of the Palestinians’. Also in 
another of his letters, mainly devoted to relations with the Karaites in 
Jerusalem, Solomon b. Judah considers it necessary to return again to the 
subject of the ‘Babylonians’ in Fustat. He mentions the prerogatives 
requested by the ‘Babylonians’ in their attempt to withdraw even the 
‘Palestinians’ synagogue from the authority of Palestine, and to transfer it 
to Babylonia, rendering that authority all the income from Egypt. ‘The 
horn should be in my hands and the udder in his’, he writes, referring 
evidently to Hayy Gaon. 41 

[769] This constant competition was not restricted to the yeshivot, in 
trying to ensure for themselves the largest degree of influence in Fustat 
(and certainly in other localities as well), each at the expense of the other, 
but it also was carried on in the place itself, between the two synagogues. 
Each synagogue tried to enlarge its membership. Solomon b. Semah 
writes to Ephraim b. Shemaria (in ca. 1030) mentioning that the yeshiva is 
receiving many letters of complaint against him, among them a letter with 
more than thirty signatures of witnesses who complain against him and his 
son-in-law, claiming that they were the reason why many people were 
going over to the ‘Babylonians” synagogue, and even to the Karaite 
majalis (literally: councils, as the Karaites called their places of congrega¬ 
tion or the congregations themselves). Also, whereas the reconstruction 
of the ‘Babylonians” synagogue was already completed (undoubtedly 
after it was destroyed at the time of al-Hakim’s decrees) the condition of 
the ‘Palestinians’ ’ synagogue ( al-shamiyln ) was going from bad to worse, 
with work on it having ceased. 

We find echoes of this situation in a letter from Ephraim b. Shemaria, or 
rather, in a draft of a letter which he prepared for the beadle of the 
synagogue of the ‘Palestinians’. The writer, Ephraim b. Shemaria, can be 
definitely identified by his handwriting. In this letter, intended for the 
Jerusalem Gaon, the beadle is supposed to complain of the alienation and 
undermining of the synagogue. This subversiveness is expressed chiefly in 
trying to attract people to go over to the ‘Babylonians” synagogue. But 
the congregation is beginning to come to itself. Ephraim was asked to 

41 The rift over bigamy: 148 ; see what is said about this above. The quarrel over the income 

from slaughtering: 79. The additional letter: 92, b, lines 6ff. 


534 



'PALESTINIANS’ VERSUS ‘BABYLONIANS' (SECS. 762-772] 

appoint parnasun and he was appointed by Ephraim to be in charge of the 
synagogue. Now he asks the Gaon to write to the congregation, to urge 
them to see to their synagogue and show their devotion to it. Their first 
achievement is a group of Maghribis who went over to the ‘Palestinians’ 
from the ‘Babylonians’, but it is very difficult to compete with the latter, 
because they attract people by granting them titles of honour. 

We find a sort of overall review of the turbid relationship between the 
‘Palestinians’ and the ‘Babylonians’ in Fustat, in a letter written by Solo¬ 
mon b. Judah to Sahlan b. Abraham. Firstly he defends himself against the 
claim that he tried to undermine the stature of the Babylonian yeshiva, or 
that he attempted to influence the ‘Babylonians’ to accept the authority of 
the Palestinian yeshiva. Every yeshiva represents God’s doctrines. Sah- 
lan’s father, Abraham, writes the Gaon, took pleasure in his responsa 
concerning laws of the markets, and even used arguments which he had 
quoted (it is not clear to whom, whether to the members of his congrega¬ 
tion in Fustat or to the Babylonian yeshiva). And he continues in a 
somewhat indifferent manner: if it happens that a community should leave 
his authority and go over to that of the ‘Babylonians’, he would not regret 
it, for that would lessen his responsibility for the sins of others. He adds 
other tokens of modesty, such as that he is aware of his insignificance and 
would prefer it if someone more worthy would take his place, ‘as it was at 
first’. Further, he thanks Sahlan for the money he took the trouble to 
collect and send to the Palestinian yeshiva, although contributions of this 
kind arouse criticism and slander; by which he evidently wished to say that 
people soon rush off to complain to Hayy Gaon about Sahlan. It emerges 
that thejerusalem Gaon read Sahlan’s letter about letters from Hayy Gaon 
which contained accusations against the Palestinian yeshiva. Sahlan 
decided to hide these letters, but Solomon b. Judah’s advice was that he 
should do quite the contrary, bringing them to the public’s notice, and in a 
very dignified manner. Finally, Solomon b. Judah cannot refrain from 
complaining about Hayy Gaon, who he claims is trying to increase the 
influence of his yeshiva wherever it is possible. 42 

[770] It seems that eventually the two congregations reached an agree- 

42 Solomon b. Semah’s letter: 205; it seems that Solomon b. Judah refrained from writing 
himself, because of his special relationship with Ephraim; see the introduction to this 
document. As to the restoration of the synagogue of the ‘Palestinians’ (which is the 
synagogue of the Geniza), we know that the major building work was completed only in 
1039 (see Gil, Documents , 95f). The letter of the beadle: 328; Goitein, Eretz-Israel, 
7(1963/4), 88, assumes that the letter dates from the period of the Nathan b. Abraham 
dispute, on the basis of the expressions of loyalty to thejerusalem Gaon found there; but 
these were intended to express loyalty to Palestine, as against the Babylonian temptations 
he speaks of in the continuation. Solomon b. Judah to Sahlan: 106; it is obvious that the 
letter is intended for Sahlan by its contents, which speaks of the Babylonian congregation 
in Fustat; see line 10: ‘my brother the haver your father’, who is certainly Abraham b. 


535 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


ment, and this renewed the possibility of their collaboration. There are 
letters from Qayrawan at that time to Ephraim b. Shemaria, expressing 
satisfaction with the version of the agreement ‘which the two parties took 
on themselves; how good and how pleasant [Ps. cxxxiiirl], how great is 
peace and despised is the rupture’. One of the leaders of the ‘Babylonians’, 
the representative of the Babylonian yeshivot, Joseph b. Jacob ibn ‘Awkal, 
participates in the efforts to recruit money to restore the synagogue 
(, ha-me'ara , the cave) injerusalem, but at the same time, he has reason to be 
angry with the Jerusalem Gaon, who did not mention his son (evidently 
on hosha‘na rabba, during the assembly on the Mount of Olives) or his title 
(the Babylonian) rosh kalla. And so he wishes to cut off all contact with the 
havurat ha-sevi, that is, the Palestinian yeshiva. Solomon b. Judah writes to 
him in order to justify what happened, ‘for it is not customary to mention 
the son in place of the father’. This certainly displayed a desire to keep on 
good terms with the people of the Babylonian yeshivot and their repre¬ 
sentatives in Egypt. This was also evident in the Gaon’s letter to Abraham 
b. Sahlan and his brother-in-law (his wife’s brother) Saadia b. Ephraim, 
both leaders of the Babylonian community in Fustat, on the subject of a 
certain Isaac, a merchant from Wadi’l-Qura. This man had abandoned his 
wife and family in ‘Amman four years earlier, and a pronouncement of 
excommunication had to be issued against him in Fustat. The letter was 
specifically written to the ‘Babylonians’, apparently in order to honour the 
connection between Wadl’l-Qura and the Babylonian yeshivot. On the 
other hand, when the people of Jerusalem were being arrested because 
they had not paid their debts (in light of the fines and high taxes imposed 
on them), we find Sahlan b. Abraham and all the people of the Babylonian 
congregation in Fustat endeavouring to help them, using all their influence 
with the caliph and the wazlr to this end. 43 

[771] The main bone of contention between the Jerusalem Gaon and the 
Babylonians as far as the rashut was concerned, was the system of law 
courts. Thejerusalem Gaon was insistent on the existence of one common 
court-of-law in Fustat, as we have seen. But this was also the source of 
trouble from close at hand, from the ‘Babylonian’ community in Ramla. 
This can be seen from a version of a letter sent to the caliph, a copy of 
which, in Hebrew script, has been preserved in the Geniza. The people of 
the yeshiva, or whoever was writing on their behalf, state their unqualified 

Sahlan; Mann, Jews, I, 114f, assumed mistakenly that the letter was written to Ephraim b. 
Shemaria. 

43 The letter from Qayrawan: 330 (23July 1035). The matter of Ibn ‘Awkal Joseph b. Jacob 
Aluf; alii/ the title from the Babylonian yeshiva, the equivalent of rosh kalla): 120, a, lines 
29fF. The matter of Isaac of Wadl’l-Qura, see: 58, a, lines 18£F. See remnants of the 
responsa to queries sent by the people of Wadl’l-Qura to Sherira Gaon and to his son Hayy: 
Ginzberg, Ceonica , II, 54, 61; Harkavy, Teshiivdt, 94. The assistance to the ‘Palestinian’ 


536 



‘PALESTINIANS’ VERSUS ‘BABYLONIANS’ [SECS. 762-772] 


opposition to recognising the authority of a separate Babylonian court-of- 
law outside the authority of the Jerusalem yeshiva, in Palestine or the 
neighbouring countries. The call for the permission to establish separate 
courts came from a certainjoseph ibn al-Sijilmassi, known as an inhabitant 
of Ramla, and evidently leader of the ‘Babylonians 1 in that city. The 
opposition to this demand was a matter ofprinciple and based on a series of 
arguments which have no equal in any clash amongst Jews, but they were 
useful in making the matter intelligible to the Muslim ruler. It was 
inadmissable that there should be two authorities. The caliphs did indeed 
permit the ‘Babylonians’ (in view of the approval of the heads of the 
Palestinian yeshiva, it is implied; evidently a pretension that had no real 
basis) to maintain separate synagogues, the reason being that the ‘Babylo¬ 
nians’ celebrated the feasts for two days instead of one. A separate auth¬ 
ority, however, had no precedent, for Jerusalem is the very centre of the 
Jews, which they face in their prayers (their qibla) and to which they travel 
as pilgrims. This demand on the part ofjoseph, it was said there, is merely 
a plot between him (and his supporters) and ‘the head of Iraq’, that is, head 
of the Babylonian yeshiva, who promised them as many titles of honour as 
they wished, if their efforts were crowned with success. The letter ends 
with a moving appeal to the caliph to continue to retain the good tradition 
of exclusivity held by the Jerusalem yeshiva. It was the same Joseph ibn 
al-Sijilmassi who envisioned the wonderful dream in Jerusalem which led 
to the pronouncement of a public fast and the mending of the ways of the 
Rabbanites and the Karaites in Palestine, thus preventing some unspecified 
act of oppression. Perhaps the relinquishment of the idea of a separate 
authority was also part of that repentance. 44 

[772] Something of the latent feelings and the inner mood of the Pal¬ 
estinian yeshiva, in view of its inferior status compared with the Babylo¬ 
nian yeshivot, made itself felt in the letters of the yeshiva, and also in the 
affair in which one of the dignitaries of Fustat (evidently Sahlan b. Abra¬ 
ham) decided to forgo the Palestinian title of haver, preferring that of aliif. 
In contrast to the current lower status, there was a nostalgia for the 
splendid past of the ancient Talmudic period. Then, it was the Palestine 
yeshiva which made the decisions concerning the law and appointments; 
‘from it [i.e., the Palestinian yeshiva] the makers of decision [in the local 
communities] would seek advice as to whom they should appoint as 
heads; since its appointees were elected according to their high rank, not 
their coins’. 

In our own terms, we would say that the appointments were then 

captives: 90, in which Solomon b. Judah thanks Sahlan and 'all the people of his congrega¬ 
tion’ (lines 1-5). 

44 The matter of the law-court: 312 , see the references noted there in the introduction; see the 


537 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

decided by the Sanhedrin according to the degree of learning and not 
according to wealth, which is more than a slight hint at the Babylonian 
yeshivot in the days of the Geonic period, which combined their judgment 
of rank and learning with that of wealth. In the continuation, the Gaon 
complains that the Jewish people have neglected the Palestinian yeshiva 
and on the other hand, constantly provided the Babylonian yeshiva, 
which is like a stepmother, with large sums of money: ‘and the shares 
belonging to the mother are being sent to the father’s wife, needlessly, 
where the [mother’s] eyes are longing for it, with no hope.. . ’ Concerning 
the same man of Fustat who ‘rejected the waters of Siloam and went to 
drink water from the river’ (Euphrates), the Gaon writes that his 
preference for the title of aliif over haver stems from his contempt for the 
teachings of Jerusalem and a partiality for that of Babylonia, where God 
‘left for it ‘[the Torah] a remnant’. He expresses the hopes that Jerusalem 
will return to its former greatness: ‘[the Torah] will return to its former 
quarters’; that man ‘treats his mother with little honour . .. and over¬ 
praises his father’s wife’, once again using the simile of a stepmother. This 
affair of the preference for a Babylonian title caused Solomon b. Judah a 
great deal of anguish. He wrote to Fustat ‘a long sheet’ and asked that it be 
read aloud ‘to all the people of thejews’. The matter disturbed him deeply, 
for the man was dear to him and he refrained from reacting violently, even 
tearing up two letters after writing them. Nevertheless, he does not 
abstain from stating that in fact the man is not worthy of the title given him 
by the Babylonians: ‘he was given this title for nothing’. Someone specific 
stands behind the nebulous talk, and that someone is ‘the Gaon of the 
diaspora’, that is, most probably, Hayy Gaon. According to what emerges 
from the letter of the Palestinian Gaon, Hayy Gaon not only granted the 
title, but also wrote critically of the Palestinian yeshiva. Heartfelt com¬ 
ments on the status of the Palestinian yeshiva were also written by Zadok 
ha-Levi b. Levi, its av-bet-dm in around the year 1030, such as: ‘learning 
only declined among the people of Palestine in the past few years, when its 
scholars were n,o longer able to find sustenance and were subjected to 
many calamities and therefore did not find the energy to teach their 
children, whom they were unable to supply with food’. Another reason 
was the excessive number of disputes, in which hoodlums were involved. 
Nevertheless: ‘the wisdom of their ancestors is still there among them, as 
is the heritage of the Mishna, the Tosefta, the Mekhilta, the Midrash, the 
Baraita, the traditions and the Haggada’, and so on. 

The rivalry between the two rdshuyot can be seen in the affair of a man 
who came from Mosul to Ramla on the Friday of the week of Passover, 

assumptions regarding the identity of this Joseph also in Hirschberg, Eretz-Israel , 

5(1958/9), 217. The dream: 313 . 


538 



‘PALESTINIANS’ VERSUS ‘BABYLONIANS’ [SECS. 762-772] 

AM 4801, that is 27 March AD 1041, during the peak of the dispute 
concerning Nathan b. Abraham, which will be discussed below. The man 
was rosh kalla, that is, one of the dignitaries of the Babylonian yeshiva. 
Joseph b. Kulayb, one of Nathan b. Abraham’s supporters, writes about it 
to his master, who was staying at the time in Tyre (apparently), after that 
man of Mosul had been staying in Ramla for a month and a half. The latter 
asked to preach to the public on the holiday (that is, on the last day of 
Passover) but he was not permitted to do so unless he would fit in with the 
general atmosphere of the public and mention the authority of‘Nathan, 
the head of the yeshiva’, so that he should not be considered a supporter of 
his rival, Solomon b. Judah. The man of Mosul refused, not wanting to be 
involved in the dispute, and mainly, he claimed, because he belonged to 
another authority altogether, the ‘Baghdadi’. Finally, he actually went 
over to the ‘Babylonian’ synagogue, and the ‘Babylonians’ in Ramla 
welcomed him gladly and supplied him with all his needs. 

As to the law, it seems to me that in the documents emerging from the 
Palestinian yeshiva itself, one cannot discern any specifically characteristic 
Palestinian system. A fragment of a letter in the handwriting of Abraham, 
son of the Gaon, contains a discussion on the wording of a divorce deed, 
saying something about Iraq, but because of the poor state of the frag¬ 
ment, it is impossible to understand any part of it. A divorce deed written 
in Ramla at the beginning of 1026, indicates that Manasseh b. Samuel 
divorces his wife, Husn, b. Joseph, and it is signed by the scribe and one 
witness, as was the Babylonian custom. One must bear in mind that there 
was a large ‘Babylonian’ community in Ramla and it is possible that 
‘Babylonians’ are being referred to here. Some of the personalities of the 
Palestinian yeshiva and its heads were not natives of Palestine either, such 
as Solomon b. Judah who came from Fas, or Daniel b. Azariah who came 
from Babylonia, and there are other similar instances. Indeed, a deed of 
trusteeship from the court of Daniel b. Azariah, the Palestinian Gaon, 
written by the scribe of the yeshiva and bearing the validation by the Gaon 
in his own handwriting, is formulated in the Babylonian version, similar 
to the one in the sefer ha-shetarot (book of documents) of Hayy Gaon. 45 

45 See the letters of Solomon b. Judah: 71 , 82 , 94 , 95 , 96 . The veiled complaints against Hayy 
Gaon: 95 , lines 3-7. 96 is a letter to Sahlan’s father, Abraham, according to which one can 
assume who is being spoken of; the Gaon expresses joy that ‘the water is again flowing 
along its course as in the past’, and we guess that the intention is that Sahlan returned and 
adopted the title haver. The letter of Zadok ha-Levi b. Levi: 210 , lines 19 ff; this Zadok 
ha-Levi was av-bet-din during Solomon b. Judah’s day, ca. 1030, and not in Elijah 
ha-Kohen Gaon’s time, as Braslavi assumes in Tarbiz, 32(1962/3), 174; as to the elegy 
there (TS 12.834) one cannot say which Rabbenu Zadok it is referring to, just as it is 
impossible to know who is ‘the fourth’ in the letter included there in the continuation, and 
which the editor decided was Elijah ha-Kohen. The letter ofjoseph b. Kulayb: 195 , Ill, a, 
margin right-hand and further. The fragment on the formulae of the deed of divorce: 168 . 


539 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

The exilarchs 


[773] Some of the descendants of the exilarchic house left their mark in 
our sources. The family of the Babylonian exilarch was already involved 
in Palestinian affairs in the Persian period, when Mar Zutra went to 
Palestine. We shall return to this subject in the discussion on the annals of 
the Palestinian Geonim and their lineage, and at that point, we shall 
encounter some of the offspring of the exilarchic house: Jehoshaphat and 
Semah, heads of the Palestinian yeshiva, Daniel b. Azariah, who will play 
an important role in our discussions below, as will his son, David b. 
Daniel. In addition, in the discussion on the Karaites, I shall deal with a 
special branch of the exilarchic house, the Karaite nesT’Tm. Here we shall 
concentrate on the descendants of Hezekiah b. Judah b. David b. Zakkai. 
His grandfather was David b. Zakkai, the famous exilarch, a contempo¬ 
rary of Saadia Gaon. David b. Zakkai’s son was too young to succeed him, 
and therefore Solomon b. Josiah (who is Hasan, David b. Zakkai’s 
brother) became the exilarch, and after him, his son Azariah. Josiah’s 
branch of the family was ousted from the exilarchy, for some unknown 
reason. Daniel b. Azariah, who later became the Palestinian Gaon, be¬ 
longed to this branch. We do not have any positive information about the 
circumstances which led to the return of the exilarchy to the descendants 
of David b. Zakkai, nor the date. Hezekiah (II) b. David was called 
exilarch when he wrote his letter to Judah, rosh ha-seder, b. Abraham, 
apparently in February 1021. Evidently he became the central figure 
among the Babylonian scholars after the death of Hayy Gaon in 1038, and 
it was due to this fact that he had a special relationship with the ‘Babylo¬ 
nians’ in Fustat. 

While Hayy Gaon was still alive, in Tammuz 1347 Sel. (July AD 1036), 
we find Hezekiah writing a letter to a certain sanhedra rahba in Fustat, and it 
seems that this is none other than Sahlan b. Abraham. The major part of 
the letter consists of courtesies and the request that the addressee should 
keep in close touch with him. Apparently, during the year of Hayy Gaon’s 
death, when he was travelling in the Maghrib, Hezekiah b. David also 
intervened in the lengthy dispute in the ‘Babylonian’ congregation in 
Fustat, which was basically a struggle with Sahlan b. Abraham, and we 
have already seen how Hayy Gaon was involved in this dispute. In the 
meantime, however, Abu Nasr Hesed al-Tustari intervened and came 
down in favour of Sahlan, as the Gaon had requested. Daniel b. Azariah 
mentions these events, as we have seen, in a letter to Sahlan (12 September 
1038). He shall speak of this with ‘our nasi, the exilarch’, who had already 

The deed of divorce from Ramla: 227 ; see Assaf, Meqorot , 25. The deed of trusteeship: 391 ; 

cf. Assaf, Tarbiz, 9 (1937/8), 17. 


540 



THE EX1LARCHS [SECS. 773-774] 


written a letter to the congregation and also a letter of thanks to the 
Tustari, and a letter in a similar vein was written by Daniel b. Azariah 
himself. In a letter which Hezekiah wrote a year later in the month of Av, 
1351 Sel. (July—August AD 1040), he again requests the ‘Babylonian’ 
congregation to obey Sahlan b. Abraham. Although Abraham ibn Da’ud 
says in his Sefer ha-qabbala that Hezekiah was placed on the seat of Hayy 
Gaon, namely that he was made head of the yeshiva, in addition to being 
exilarch, it seems that this was not quite so, and Abraham ibn Da’ud 
interpreted in his own fashion what was written in the version of the Seder 
‘olam zuta: ‘and after Rav Hayy, no one was appointed head of the yeshiva 
in Babylonia but there is an exilarch whose name is Rabbenu Hezekiah 
who is now [1047, when this chronicle was copied] head, and stems from 
the family of David’. It does not say that he was made head of the yeshiva, 
and obviously ‘head of the diaspora’ was meant. Abraham ibn Da’ud’s 
other account, which says that terrible calamities befell Hezekiah two 
years after the death of Hayy Gaon, that is in about 1040, and that his two 
sons fled to Spain to Joseph b. Samuel the Nagid (Ibn Naghrila), is not 
confirmed by any other source. Hezekiah and his sons are mentioned in 
the Geniza documents of my collection. Mann points to the complexity of 
the story of the flight to Spain; if indeed the reference is to the year 1040, 
Samuel the Nagid was still alive then, while Abraham ibn Da’ud refers to 
him as to a deceased person. Poznanski and Assaf alredy understood that it 
was not likely that Abraham ibn Da’ud’s account was correct, and 
suggested that it be amended to read twelve years, or else twenty (instead 
of two). Perhaps those terrible troubles did indeed occur in about 1050 or 
1058. The latter date is more likely, for in 1055, Samuel, the Spanish 
Nagid, dedicates a poem to Hezekiah b. David and therefore we have 
proof of contact between the two. We know from documents in the 
Geniza that David b. Hezekiah stayed for a time in Palestine, and after¬ 
wards perhaps also in Egypt, before continuing on his way to Spain - if 
there is indeed a grain of truth in the writings of Abraham ibn Da’ud. We 
can assume that he returned to Iraq, for his son Hezekiah was exilarch in 
Baghdad towards the end of the eleventh century. One should add that in 
Solomon b. Judah’s day, a nasi is occasionally mentioned, though without 
actual reference to him by name. Nasi, in that period, generally meant 
exilarch or someone from the family of the exilarchs, but there is no reason 
to assume that they were referring to the exilarch Hezekiah b. David 
himself, and it is more likely that the reference was to one of the Karaite 
nesi’im, who shall be discussed in the chapter on the Karaites. 46 

46 See the article of Goode, JQR, NS31:149,1940/1. The list of generations of descendants of 
Judah b. David b. Zakkai can be seen in the verso of 27, the letter tojudah rosh ha-seder .; see 
the introduction to this document; and see also the Letter of Sherira Gaon (Lewin), 136; cf. 


541 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


[774] During the period under discussion, we encounter a number of 
nesVitn, or descendants of the family of the exilarchs, who wanted to 
become and sometimes succeeded in being appointed geonim in Palestine. 
This seems to be a kind of tradition that had been handed down since the 
sixth century, from Mar Zutra’s day. In the time ofjosiah Gaon, that is in 
ca. 1020, there was a struggle for the Gaon’s seat in Palestine, in which a 
member of the exilarch’s family was involved, a nasi, whose name we do 
not know. The only source of information on this affair is a letter from 
Josiah Gaon to the Palestinian congregation in Fustat. Only half the letter 
is extant. It bears eloquent style and is written in rhyme. That nasi wanted 
to oust the Gaon from his office and carried on a propaganda campaign in 
writing to this end. The Gaon calls him ‘the king of Sheshach’ (Babylonia, 
in cryptogram, Jer., xxv:26, li:41), and he undoubtedly means a descend¬ 
ant of Bustanai, a veiled reference to the latter’s Persian wife, a subject that 
was constantly exploited as a weapon by the rivals of the nesi’un. The nasi 
being spoken of is said to be the seventeenth generation to Bustanai. The 
exilarchic house are the ‘progeny of uncircumcised and shameful [re¬ 
lations]’; nevertheless ‘out of five generations, two inherited sanctity’, and 
the reference here is evidently to Jehoshaphat and Semah, the sons of 
Josiah (who were geonim of Palestine in the ninth century). The writer 
repeats the matter of his rival’s guilt, which appears to be the desire to 
change laws or the calendar order, and he writes this twice: ‘to change his 

Mann, Poznanski Memorial Volume, 19-23. See the letter from 1036:TS 13 J 9, f. 1, edited by 
Assail Tequfat ha-g., 286f (= Tarbiz, 11 [1939/40], 152-155). See the letter of Daniel b. 
Azariah, 344, a, lines 14ff; Goitein, Shalem, 2(1975/6), 47 (= ha-Yishuv, 136f), assumed 
that that conversation with the exilarch took place in Mosul and that that exilarch was 
Zakkai, Daniel’s brother. See the letter of Hezekiah to the ‘Babylonian’ congregation: TS 
Loan 40, in Mann, Texts, I, 181-184; and see the editor’s comments ibid., 117, 179. The 
fragment from Seder ‘olam ziitd'. in Neubauer, Mediaeval Jewish Chronicles, I, 178 (where 
there are contradictions as to the date it was written, from 1043 to 1047); Abraham ibn 
Da’ud, Sefer ha-qabbala (ed. Cohen), 44f, see the editor’s notes to the translation on p. 61, 
to line 209. It is typical that in his aforementioned letter, Hezekiah does not call himself 
head of the yeshiva; if he had been, he would not have refrained from doing so; cf. my 
similar arguments: Gil, ha-Tustarim, 47f. See: Poznanski, Babylonische Geonim, 1—3; Assaf, 
Tequjatha-geonim, 285, andn. 1. Doubts regarding the information of Abraham ibn Da’ud 
concerning the appointment of Hezekiah as head of the yeshiva in Pumbedita, were 
already expressed by Mann, Texts, I, 209, n. 14. who noted that actually he is never 
mentioned as Gaon, for which he quotes several examples, and concludes that, in view of 
the proven fact that Abraham ibn Da‘ud is not to be relied on concerning matters of the 
history of the Gaonate, there is reason to be sceptical here too, as long as we have no 
further proof. He cites further the example of Daniel b. Azariah, who is so often called ‘nasi 
and Gaon’, and we would expect something similar in Hezekiah’s case if he had actually 
become the Pumbedita Gaon. A nasi, who is evidently Hezekiah b. Solomon, nasi of the 
Karaites, is mentioned by Solomon b. Judah, see 64 and other documents, in the dis¬ 
cussion on the Karaites; see Solomon b. ha-Yatom, Periish massekhet mashqin, 46; ‘the nasi 
of the Jews is called rosh galiit’. The exilarch Hezekiah is also mentioned (together with 
Hayy Gaon) in the Cambridge manuscript edited by Schechter, Berliner Festschrift (the 
Hebrew section), llOff, which is a letter from a community (signed: Elijah ha-Kohen bet 


542 



THE EXILARCHS [SECS. 773-774] 

laws’ and further: ‘to change laws established by covenants’ phrases based 
on the quotation, .. and think to change times and laws’: (Dan., vii:25), 
an accusation made two generations later against another descendant of 
the exilarch, David b. Daniel. It was evidently to that very person that 
Joshua ha-Kohen ha-mumhe b. Ya’Ir, of Tiberias, was referring when he 
wrote his letter to the congregations of Aleppo. He speaks of great schisms 
within the communities of Syria, Palestine, and Egypt, created by a man 
‘called nasi*. He gave himself‘a good name’ (that is, he evidently meant to 
say, he perhaps gave himself titles such as rosh galuyot kol Israel, exilarch of 
all Israel) and he possessed written proof of his lineage, and he appointed 
courts, and advisers and assistants to manage his affairs. He received 
enormous honours, from Raqqa (Kalne) in northern Syria to as far as 
Egypt. It was later revealed that he was not a nasi at all and that ‘he was 
relegated [from Tiberias] to the land of Edom [Byzantium] and died on the 
way’. 

David b. Hezekiah stayed in Palestine, as I have mentioned. Evidently, 
he is the nasi who is being referred to by the av-bet-din Zadok ha-Levi b. 
Levi in a letter on behalf of the Rabbanites in Ramla to the Rabbanite 
congregation in Fustat, written in around 1030. According to him, the 
rosh, that is Solomon b. Judah, received him warmly and even granted him 
a title (‘prayed on him’) on behalf of the yeshiva: me'uttad (its meaning: a 
candidate for being a haver). It seems that this nasi, who as I have said, may 
have been David b. Hezekiah, intervened in the internal affairs of the 
yeshiva, and for some reason acted against the av-bet-din in particular (that 
is, against Zadok, who is writing the letter but who does not sign it in his 
own name). In the letter it is hinted that it is ‘the rosh and his son’, that is, 
Solomon b. Judah and his son Abraham, who were responsible for his 
leaving for Ramla afterwards in order to undermine the status of Zadok, 
whose main occupation seems to have been the supervision of the market 
(that is, the ritual slaughtering) in Ramla. Zadok found something un- 
kosher in the stall of a Maghribi cantor-slaughterer in Ramla. The nasi 
tried to intervene on behalf of the shdhet but only displayed his own 
ignorance in these matters. Later on, the nasi took over the affairs of the 
market, ritual slaughtering was placed in the hands of a man who was 
professionally a baker, and the nasi promised him not to disqualify any of 
his slaughtering. He also plotted to get rid Ramla of Zadok altogether. 
Perhaps a further letter provides us with an answer to the question of 
whom the Gaon and his son, and also the nasi, actually favoured when they 
wanted to replace Zadok ha-Levi b. Levi. Indeed, from the letter from 
Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon to David b. Hezekiah, written in ca. 

din b. Abraham) to Jacob he-haver b. Joseph in Aleppo. Samuel ha-Nagid dedicated a 

poem to him, No. 143 (see the Dtwan, lOlff) written in AM 4815, that is AD 1055. 


543 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

1046, we learn that David was apparently forced to leave Jerusalem, and 
the writer deplores this fact, while also bewailing the decline in moral 
standards but probably regretting in fact that it was not possible for him to 
take Zadok’s place. 

Thus David b. Hezekiah left Jerusalem in the forties of the century. That 
he did indeed go to Spain first is perhaps borne out by the poems of Samuel 
ibn Naghrila, the Spanish Nagid, dedicated to him (we have seen that a 
poem was also dedicated to his father Hezekiah), in which Samuel says of 
him that he is at the head of the returners to Zion, something which 
Samuel thinks of as happening in his own day, as one can see by the text of 
the poem: ‘please go to Zion, pride of all lands, and be there judge of its 
qenasot (meaning criminal matters, a prerogative of the Jewish courts 
which existed only at the time of Jewish independence); and know ye that 
you, David, have a lodging in the palace which is there’. The verses of the 
Nagid sound as if they are intended as an expression of sympathy with 
David b. Hezekiah for having been forced to leave Palestine. 

As stated above, it seems that David afterwards returned to Baghdad 
and was exilarch there after the death of his father Hezekiah. We encounter 
his son Hezekiah (III) in the same office towards the end of the century. 
Abiathar ha-Kohen b. ‘Elijah writes on 4 July 1091 to the yeshivas of 
Baghdad (Mata Malpiyya, that is Sura, and Pumbedita, whose scholars 
were then staying in Baghdad) and to ‘the rashut of Hezekiah the 
exilarch’. 47 

The lineage of the exilarchic house from Zakkai onwards is outlined as 
follows: 

47 The letter ofjosiah Gaon: 29, lines 18fF; Dinur, Zion (ha-me’assef), 3(1928/9), 66, connects 
this affair with the quarrel between the parnasim described in the Sefer hasidim, but this is 
only guesswork; Mann, Jews, II, 68, assumes that the ‘five generations’ refer to the five 
sons ofBustanai, only two of whom were from ajewish wife, and see ibid, his debate with 
Marmorstein, who assumed that the entire attack was directed against someone from the 
family of the priestly geonim; in Texts, II, 134, Mann assumes that the attacked nasi was 
Solomon b. David b. Boaz, a Karaite nasi, but it is not likely that a Karaite nasi would 
arouse such affection on the part of the Rabbanites, to the point where the Gaon had to 
attack him in this manner, without mentioning explicitly that he was a Karaite. On the 
Bustanai affair, see Gil, Tarbiz, 48(1978/9), 36ff, and references there to sources and 
research literature. The letter of Joshua ha-Kohen b. Ya’Ir: 24; Mann, Jews, I, 172f, 
assumed that the man’s name was Shem-Tov and that the letter was written in Raqqa. The 
letter in Zadok’s handwriting: 213, lines 29ff; Goitein, Shalem, 2(1975/6), 51 (= ha-Yisluw, 

139f), assumes that that nasi was Daniel b. Azariah, but this is not possible, as we know the 
likely date of the letter on the basis of its sender, and Daniel was not in Palestine at the time; 
Cohen, ASJR, 1(1976), 9, n. 25, even finds here proof that Solomon b. Judah wanted 
Daniel as his successor. Elijah’s letter: 416; Dinur, Isra'el ba-gola, 1(3), 99, n. 61, under¬ 
stood that the opposition to David b. Hezekiah (which caused him to leave Jerusalem) 
came mainly from the family of the priestly geonim, who claimed to be the offspring of 
the ancient sage Eleazar b. Azariah; hut we have seen that the writer of the letter himself 
(who expresses his loyal friendship to David b. Hezekiah) stemmed from the same family, 
which cancels out his assumption in any case. Mann, Jews, I, 112f, also did not identify the 


544 



THE EXILARCHS [SECS. 773-774] 
Zakkai 


David 

Josiah (Hasan) 

Judah 

1 

Solomon 

i 

1 

Hezekiah 

1 

Azariah 

| 

/ \ 

David 

1 

Zakkai Daniel 

1 

Hezekiah 

1 

David 

1 

David 

| 


1 

Hezekiah 



Relations between the Palestinian yeshiva and the communities in 
Palestine and the diaspora 

[775] We have seen the extent to which the yeshiva was an institution 
whose activities were directed outwards towards the other institutions of 
leadership and the local communities. Up to this point, we have dealt 
mainly with the connections with the communities of Fustat and the 
relationship between Jerusalem and Babylonia, that is, with its yeshivot 
and exilarchs. From among the communities in Palestine, we have seen 
the special ties of the yeshiva with Tiberias, We have also seen, and shall 
see further, the ties with Ascalon and Tyre, the two major ports of the area 
in the period under discussion. Although evidence of each of the other 
communities in Palestine has not been preserved, there is no doubt that the 
yeshiva had contact with them as well, as we have seen, for instance, in the 
intervention in the matter of the synagogue routines in Hasor (Caesarea), 
or in the letters to Rafiah and others. Evidence exists of links with other 
countries, apart from Egypt, such as Syria, for example. Abraham, son of 
the Gaon, writes of his stay in Damascus, evidently in 1025, and his father 
also mentions this stay there at the height of a serious rift there, in two of 
his letters. People of the yeshiva were taken to Damascus to be impris¬ 
oned, in connection with the excommunication of the Karaites, and the 
Gaon was making an effort, with the help of public leaders there, and 


writer of the letter in his discussion, but afterwards did identify him, see ibid., II, 347. 417 
is also a fragment of a letter from the aforementioned Elijah (the ‘third’) to David ha-Nasi 
b. Hezekiah; unfortunately, only the opening part has been preserved. As to the date of the 
letters, which is the time of David b. Hezekiah’s departure from Jerusalem, see in the 
introductions to these letters. The poems of Samuel ha-Nagid: No. 53 (the Diwan, 36); 
No. 95(66, ibid.); No. 97(69, ibid.). In the first, ‘Rabbi Sahlan’ is also mentioned, perhaps 
Sahlan b. Abraham, Abiathar’s letter: 553. 


545 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

especially with ‘Adi b. Manasseh ibn al-Qazzaz, to have them released. 
The Gaon even considered travelling to Damascus for this purpose. Abra¬ 
ham, son of the Gaon, was in Damascus again in 1033, undoubtedly on 
some mission for the yeshiva. Damascus is also mentioned at the time of 
the dispute of Nathan b. Abraham, as we shall see. The opinion of the 
Damascene community had considerable significance in this affair, and 
Abraham, son of the Gaon, visited Damascus then too. 

Damascus was evidently a sort of way-station for Babylonian im¬ 
migrants to Palestine and also for people coming from Byzantium, who 
would first stop there and then go on to Palestine, whence some would 
sometimes continue westward to Egypt or to the Maghrib. Such was the 
case of the Baghdadi cantor, Rawh ha-Kohen b. Pinhas, in whose interest 
Zadok ha-Levi writes at least two letters to Ephraim b. Shemaria. That 
cantor was at first in Damascus, ‘prayed there in the congregation but did 
not want to benefit from them’; that is, he refused to take payment for this. 
Another cantor too, Isaac al-FasI, a Maghribi who was apparently on his 
way to Egypt from Byzantium, stopped in Damascus and then injerusa- 
lem. Daniel b. Azariah had a special relationship with the people of 
Damascus and tried to help them in Fustat with their tax affairs, as I have 
shown above. When he was already Gaon, he stayed for some time in 
Damascus, in 1054 or 1055, as was his custom from time to time, before 
becoming Gaon. From among the priestly geonim we find Elijah b. 
Solomon Gaon there, writing a deed in his own hand on 5 May 1031, and 
from the time of his holding the rank of Gaon, a letter is mentioned written 
to ‘the Damascus neighbourhood’, some time prior to 1070. 

In order to round out the picture, I should add the information we have 
on the existence of two communities in Damascus during the period under 
discussion - the ‘Palestinian’ and the other (‘the smaller’ - its synagogue 
was also called thus), the ‘Babylonian’. The remnants of a notebook from 
the year 933, ‘from the small synagogue of the Babylonians’, found in the 
Geniza, is witness to the fact. 48 

48 Abraham, son of the Gaon, in Damascus: 59 , line 17. The letters of Solomon b. Judah: 81 , 
line 15; 84 , b (II), line 14. The matter of the prisoners in Damascus: 90 , and others; see ‘Eli 
ha-Kohen b. Hezekiah’s letters: 433 . The second visit of Abraham to Damascus: 212 , 
margin. Isaac the cantor: 241 . Daniel b. Azariah in Damascus: 357 , a, line 4; see the letter of 
‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel: 445 . The deed from Damascus: 415 . On the letter of Elijah Gaon 
to the neighbourhood of Damascus: 547 , a, line 40. The remnants of the note-book of the 
‘Babylonian’ congregation (TS 16.181) were edited by: Assaf, Meqorot, 64-69; Goitein, 
Leshonenu, 30(1965/6), 200-208; Friedman, Marriage , II, 396-435; see also a marriage deed 
from the year 956, Bodl MS Heb d 65, f. 30, in Assaf, Tarbiz, 9(1937/8), 26f; Friedman, 
ibid., 198-207. We have seen above that the synagogue is mentioned in an Arab source, in 
connection with the ensnaring of the Damascus ruler, al-Qassam; this was certainly the 
great synagogue of al-Shamiyln, the ‘Palestinians’, see on this also in Gil, Documents, 217, 
n. 5. Kamsat al-‘Iraqiym mentioned by Nathan b. Abraham in his letter: 183 , a, line 21, was 
in Ramla, not in Damascus, contrary to Mann’s view in Jews, I, 150, and following him. 


546 



THE YESHIVA AND THE COMMUNITIES [SECS. 775-777] 


[776] Apart from contacts with Egypt and Syria, in relation to which the 
central position of the Palestinian yeshiva is proven and documented in the 
Geniza, one should also note connections with more distant regions. 
Unique evidence is found in the letter of Abu’l-Hay b. Hakim, on behalf of 
‘the holy community who live here on the isle of Sicily’, to Hanania 
ha-Kohen av-bet-din b. Joseph, head of the yeshiva, dated ca. 1020. The 
letter refers to the difficult situation of the Jews of the island, made so 
especially by the heavy taxes imposed on them. The letter is dated the first 
day of Elul, and the writer apologises on behalf of the people of Sicily for 
not having written for some time and for not writing to the Gaon himself, 
for it is not fitting to write him without also sending a donation. On the 
holidays they will write and also send a gift. This letter confirms a fact 
which we could have assumed, that is that the Jews of Sicily, like in the 
other areas that had formerly been under Roman and Byzantine rule, 
continued to maintain constant contact with the Sanhedrin, the Palestinian 
yeshiva. In one of Solomon b. Judah’s letters, there is a hint that some of 
the contacts with Sicily are carried on through Egypt, undoubtedly owing 
to the busy maritime trade conducted by the Maghribi merchants in Egypt 
with the island. In around 1035, Ephraim b. Shemaria mentions in the 
draft of a letter to the yeshiva, the very respectable sum of 35 dinars which 
have arrived from Sicily for thejews ofjerusalem, to somewhat ease their 
heavy burden of debts. It is characteristic that in order to settle a dispute 
amongst them, these Maghribi merchants appealed to the court of the 
head of the yeshiva, as we see from a court record written in the spring of 
1040 in the court of Nathan b. Abraham (at that time, Solomon b. Judah’s 
competitior for the office of Gaon), which met in Fustat. In 1058, we 
encounter matters of partnership and a legacy attached to it, in which the 
Gaon Daniel b. Azariah is asked to pass judgment. And above, we have 
seen evidence of more ancient connections between the Palestine yeshiva 
and Southern Italy, in the Scroll of Ahima‘as. 49 

Friedman, ibid., 398, n. 6. Apart from Damascus, Aleppo, Tripoli (Itrabulus), and Tyre 
also left their mark in documents preserved in the Geniza; some of these have been 
mentioned above and I shall return to them in the discussion on matters of the yeshiva at 
the end of the eleventh century. 

49 The letter from Sicily (when speaking of Siqilliyya, or Siqilliyya, they mean Palermo): 45 . 
There are tens of letters in the Geniza containing evidence on matters relating to the 
Sicilian Jews, particularly with regard to the economy, but there is also some general 
information on political events (the eleventh century was rife with awesome events 
occurring on the Island: the Byzantine invasions, and the Norman domination which 
began in the fifties of the century) and also information on community life. A central 
figure there was the dayyan Masllah b. Eliah (Eliah, is Basaq, or Abu Sahl), mentioned in 
426 , lines 7—8. He is mentioned in the commentary on the Song of Solomon by Joseph b. 
Judah ibn ‘Aqnln (see the Halkin ed., 494), cited there from the kitab al-istighna by ‘the 
Nagid’ (i.e. Samuel b. Naghrila) containing mention of Masliah’s stay in Baghdad with 
Hayy Gaon. See my article on matters of the Jews in Sicily during this period 


547 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


[777] Information on the yeshiva’s connections with the rest of Europe 
is very meagre. The responsum of Elijah ha-Kohen Gaon b. Solomon to 
Meshullam b. Moses of Mainz is preserved, and is also signed by the son of 
the Gaon, Abiathar: ‘Abiathar ha-Kohen the fourth of the yeshiva’. This 
information on connections between Meshullam b. Moses and the Pal¬ 
estinian yeshiva, which undoubtedly existed in the sixties of the eleventh 
century, has been preserved in a number of sources ascribed to people of 
Mainz. 

Another matter relating to this subject is the anxiety of‘Eli ha-Kohen b. 
Ezekiel, of the Jerusalem yeshiva, for the aforementioned cantor Abu 
‘Imran Musa al-‘AjamI. I have also mentioned Abiathar ha-Kohen, son of 
the Gaon, who asks the parnas of Fustat, ‘Eli ha-Kohen, in November 
1070, for details about someone who came from the land of the Franks and 
happened to be in Fustat. 

It appears that the matter of Reuben b. Isaac ‘from the land of Fransa’ 
belongs to the same period. He wanted to come to Palestine after a tragic 
event in his family, namely that his only son was killed by assailants and 
robbed of all his property. As Golb has proven, the man came from Rouen 
(in the letter: ‘from the city of rdwrn'). The letter of recommendation for 

according to Geniza documents in Italia Judaica (Bari 1981), 87; see also Goitein, Archivio 
storico per la Sicilia Orientate, 67:9, 1971; Golb, JNES, 32:105, 1973. See various infor¬ 
mation on Sicily and its Jews in Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, according to the Index 
(Sicily, Palermo). Theletter of Solomonb. Judah: 80, b, line 25. The record from the court 
of Nathan b. Abraham: 193. Ephraim b. Shemaria: 326. Daniel b. Azariah: 394—396. See 
also: Mosseri VIII, 41 Or, the beginning of a deed relating to Simon Siqillx, written ‘before 
our Master, the Honourable, etc., David the Great Nasi, head of the yeshivat Ge’on 
Ya'aqov’. Apart from the Scroll of Ahima'as, Mann quotes, Jeu/s, 1, 73f, as further proof of 
the connections with Southern Italy, the foreword in the book horayat ha-qdre ‘which was 
brought here from Jerusalem lb V (which he interpreted as Bari) in a short way ’ by J oseph b. 
Hiyya the scribe; the book was written in Arabic and Nethanel b. Meshullam (as in the 
Bodleian MS, whereas the Vatican MS has: Meshullam b. Nethanel) translated it into 
Hebrew ‘in the city of Magenza’ (Mainz; in Mann erroneously: Jacob b. Meshullam, and 
see Goitein’s note in the preface to the second edition of Mann’s book). Hdrayat ha-qdre was 
first mentioned by Porges: REJ, 23(1891), 310f; MS Bodl., Opp. 625, see: Neubauer, 
Catalogue, 1465, No. 11, fol. 241b; see film 16384 at the Institute of Microfilmed Hebrew 
MSs, Jerusalem; however the whole matter is doubtful and it seems that one should read 
here: le-ua’er, to interpret, and not to Bari. That same Nethanel b. Meshullam (if that is 
indeed his name) may have been the son of the Meshullam b. Moses mentioned below. See 
also Fleischer, Sejimot, NS, 1 (1979/80), 43ff, who proves that the holiday Torah readings 
in Italy in the ninth century were according to the custom of Palestine; Klar, Megillat 
Ahima'as, 152ff, discusses ancient connections between Southern Italy (which until 1057 
was part of Byzantium) and Palestine; one may question his assertion that the famous 
inscription from Venosa, which mentions elegies said there over the deceased by two 
emissaries and two rabis (duo apostoli et duo rebbites) does actually relate to the matter, for 
Palestine is not mentioned there. He notes further the benediction for the new month that 
was customary among Greek Jews: ‘Ye the whole people heed to listen to the sanctification 
of this month, as decreed by our forefathers, the holy havurbt (i.e. the Sanhedrin) who used 
to convene in Palestine, namely that we have a new month, on such-and-such, on 
this-and-this day of the week’; cf. Brann, MGWJ, 62(1918), 276f; Zunz, Ritus 82. 


548 



THE YESHIVA AND THE COMMUNITIES [SECS. 775-777] 


him was written by the people of the community where he stopped on his 
way, which, in Golb’s opinion, was the city of Arles (the first letter of the 
name of the city has been preserved in the letter, an alef). 

The people of Europe evidently did not have a good reputation in the 
eyes of the yeshiva and its circle. This we can discern from the letter of 
Judah ha-Kohen b. Joseph, the Rav, or spiritual leader of the Maghribis in 
Fustat, to one of his relatives, called ‘the fifth in the yeshiva’, in Jerusalem 
or perhaps Tyre. The writer and the addressee have a relative in common, 
whose name is R. Judah, and the writer has learned that the addressee’s son 
Nissim wants to leave and go to the city in which R. Judah resides, 
apparently, somewhere in Europe. The journey will last three years at 
least; the people (that is, the Jews) there are cruel and mean, they barely 
greet a strangejew, and after a month and a half, they will ask him to leave, 
because of the herem ha-yishshuv (the settlement ban), while their knowl¬ 
edge of the Torah is negligible. In short, the Rav is strongly opposed to 
Nissim’s going there and it seems that these words are being written in the 
hope that they will have some influence on the young man. 50 


The Jewish leadership and the Fatimid authorities 

[778] A large number of writings in the Geniza shed light on the 
question of the relationship between the Jewish population of Palestine 

50 See the responsum of Elijah ha-Kohen and his son Abiathar: Bodl MS Heb c 23, f. 42; a 
fragment of which was first edited by Epstein, MGWJ , 47(1903), 354; similarly, with 
regard to the saying of the prayer we-hassi’enu (in the musaf prayer) on Rosh ha-shdnd and 
Yom kippur, one mentions ‘the lions that sit in Jerusalem, the Holy City’, ‘the yeshiva of 
Palestine’, ‘the yeshiva ofjerusalem’, and it is said that R. Meshullam addressed a query to 
them on this matter. See the references in Epstein, ibid., 344; cf. also the Ma'ase rdqeah of 
Eleazar b. Judah b. Kalonymus of Mainz, 27: ‘and the geonim of Mainz introduced the 
custom [to bless] over the hadas [myrtle], as did our Master Meshullam of Mainz, who sent 
[a query] to the Holy City and they answered us that one has to say a blessing over it’; see 
also: Poznanski, Babylonische Geonim, 93f, n. 5, who adds similar references from the 
Siddur of Rashi, and others. Marmorstein, REJ, 73(1921), 88-92, edited the Bodleian 
manuscript, which indeed deals with the prayer we-hassVenu, and also the rules regarding 
Passover eve which falls on the sabbath, the blessing on the hadas on a holiday eve which 
falls on the sabbath night, on the question of the freeing of a slave by his owner without the 
knowledge of the latter’s wife, and the rules regarding fruit picked by a gentile on a 
holiday, cf. Marmorstein, ibid., 86. Echoes from the responsum regarding Passover eve 
can be found in ENA 2941, see Osar ha-ge’omm, Pesahim, 66f; cf. also Mann, Jen's, I, 186; 
II, 223f, 378; Grossman, Hakhme Ashkenaz, 283, 391f. In the version of the responsum of 
Elijah ha-Kohen the following sentence is found: ‘since this is the way we are doing it in 
both yeshivot, of the Land of ...’ (the manuscript is torn here). Mann (ibid., II, 223) 
suggested to complete it: ‘of the Land of Israel and Babylonia’. Dr Yoram Erder indicates 
(and he is correct) a preference for Marmorstein’s completion of that sentence: ‘of the Land 
oflsrael and ofNehardeY (not Babylonia, as in Mann). In the inahzdr ofVitry, the dispute 
over the prayer we-hassVenu is presented as a dispute between the Palestinian custom and 
the Babylonian. In the Pardes of Rashi, it says that we-hassVenu is said in Palestine and in 
Neharde'a: ‘since this is the way we are doing it in both yeshivot ... in Palestine and in 


549 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


and its leadership, and the Fatimid authorities. Within the Fatimid ruling 
system and the political ideology on which it was built, there is no sign of 
deviation from the deep-rooted and hallowed principles of the Muslim 
law regarding dhimmls. Thejews and the Christians had the right to enjoy 
the security and other rights promised them, but also the obligation to pay 
their taxes and observe the restrictions imposed on them. In everyday 
reality, however, if we are to generalise, the Fatimid caliphate brought 
with it an improvement in the life of the Jews, and especially those of 
Palestine. One should bear in mind certain central facts in the overall 
situation: (1) the major standing ofthejewish merchants (the Maghribis in 
particular) in maritime trade in the Mediterranean and the supply of goods 
to Spain, the Maghrib, Sicily, Egypt, Palestine and Syria, (2) the unpre¬ 
cedented role of thejews in political and military events, and (Sj Jewish 
support of the Fatimid rulers against their enemies - though according to 
the information at our disposal, this support was mainly expressed in the 
form of prayer, but one should also take into consideration that in those 
times, prayer had a greater significance than it has today. 

The principal factor in the Fatimids’ policy towards thejews of Palestine 
lay in its respect for Jewish autonomy and self-rule. The principle of 
tolerance towards the independent leadership of the dhimmis has deep 
roots in Muslim tradition, going as far back as the Prophet. As we have 
seen, great importance of a very special nature was attached to the yeshiva, 
as the leadership of the Jews of Palestine, because it also controlled the 

Neharde'a, where one says we-hasst’enu on Rosh ha-shana and Yom kippur, as it is said in 
the Palestinian Talmud . .. that Samuel said: one has to say we-hasst’enu’ (see PT, Ber. ix, 
13d, bottom). See the mahzor of Vitry, 360 (Nos. 321-322); the Pardes (ed. Ehrenreich, 
Budapest 1924), 214; cf. Elbogen, 133f, 146. The matter of the cantor: 451, lines 13-14. 
Abiathar’s letter: 547, b, lines 1-2. Reuben b. Isaac, see: BM Or 5544, f. 1; the significant 
part of the letter was edited by Mann,Jews, II, 191, see lin'd., 1,165; the letter was edited in 
full by Golb, Rouen, 163—170, see the discussion ibid., 3-12; on the basis of the fact that on 
the verso of the letter someone, evidently one of the scribes of the yeshiva, wrote versions 
and formulae, common in letters of the yeshiva - which may be used when needed - he 
concludes that this Reuben did in fact reach Jerusalem and hand over the letter, and it is at 
the yeshiva that it was used for writing those versions and formulae. Golb, ibid., Ilf, 
relates to this matter 123 as well, but this is only an assumption, particularly as this letter, 
written by Abraham b. Solomon b, Judah, refers to a man who fled because of taxes, and 
passed through Damascus; if one were referring to a man from ‘the land of the Franks', the 
writer would have noted this; and they are speaking of the possibility that the man would 
return to his home, which does not fit the situation of this Reuben who wanted to die, and 
because of this, remained injerusalem. This letter concerning Reuben undoubtedly landed 
in the Geniza together with other Jerusalem letters which reached Fustat with the remnants 
of the archives of the yeshiva, and the fact that it is found in the Geniza is no proof that 
Reuben himself in fact came to Fustat fromjerusalem; cf. Grossman, Shalem, 3(1980/1), 64 
(for some reason, he does not mention Golb). The letter of the Raw. 530; Herem ha-yishshuv 
was not known of in Islamic countries (nor apparently in Byzantine lands either) and 
seems quite indecent in the writer’s opinion; see on herem ha-yishshuv: Baron, SRHJ, IV, 


550 



JEWISH LEADERSHIP AND FATIMID AUTHORITIES [SECS. 778-783] 


Jewish communities in the other countries under Fatimid rule. The repre¬ 
sentative of this leadership, the Gaon, had access to the rulers in al-Qahira 
through the Jewish notables of Egypt, the Jewish elite, who were the 
bankers, wealthy merchants, and physicians to the Fatimid court. A large 
proportion of the information at our disposal are matters dealing with the 
ceaseless acts of intercession. Whenever there was some injustice towards 
the Jewish population, or even towards an individual, whether this was 
harshness in matters of taxes or some maltreatment ( zulm ), urgent letters 
would be sent from Jerusalem to Jewish notables in Fustat and, through 
them, Jews close to the court, such as the Tustaris, would be made to exert 
their influence, until the matter was rectified by the caliph’s official order 
(sijill, manshur, tawqV). These orders were addressed to the commanders of 
the army (the amirs) for it was they who actually ruled Palestine in the state 
of the endless warfare existing there. 

Against the background of a government with whom it was possible to 
come to terms, one must also view the frequent involvement - evidently 
more frequent than is reflected in the letters - of the Fatimid authorities in 
the Jewish schisms and rifts and the continuous quarrelling between the 
Rabbanites and the Karaites. The Jews themselves invited this official 
intercession and supplied the authorities with ample occasions for in¬ 
volvement. The classic formula of Fatimid bureaucracy often repeats itself 
in this reality in approximately the following manner: ‘In your hands, our 
Master (that is, the caliph), may you enjoy God’s blessing and his prayers, 
is the supreme authority to prevent so-and-so [a Jew] from doing such- 
and-such’ (such as the closing of a synagogue). Iniquity and scheming on 
the part of the local rulers were also included in this state of affairs 
alongside the inner divisions and quarrels amongst the Jews themselves, 
while on the other hand, the central authorities manifested greater recep¬ 
tivity than was common in the Muslim world, and were prepared to make 
amends, generally in the form of written orders. 

A fact worth noting is the financial support rendered by the Fatimid 
rulers, at any rate during the first generation of their dominion (or attempts 
at dominion) of Palestine. We learn of this from a letter ofjosiah Gaon to 
the community of Damietta. In the course of describing the distress and 
need, he notes that ‘when we were provided for by the kingdom, we 
would not trouble you’. According to him, this financial sponsorship 
continued until two years before the imposition of the great tax [or fine] on 
the Jews. Perhaps he is referring to the special taxes imposed during 
al-Dizbiri’s time, apparently in 1024, which we have already dealt with 


71; 274, n. 91, and references therein. A similar attitude towardsjews of Ashkenazcan also 
be sensed in the responsum of 960 quoted above, in sec. 736. 


551 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

above, and thus the year in which the support was withdrawn would be 
1022 - though this is merely an assumption. 51 

[779] I have already mentioned above that in about 1060 the governor of 
Jerusalem was a Jew, a Karaite by the name of Abu Sa‘d Isaac (Ishaq) b. 
Aaron (Khalaf) ibn ‘Allun. We have also seen that the Jews of Jerusalem 
were required to appoint a wakil over themselves. For this purpose, it 
states in a letter fromjerusalem to Ramla, thejerusalem cadi al-Tlzi would 
travel to Ramla to clarify the affair at the seat ( majlis) of the cadi of Ramla, 
Abu’l-Ma‘alL It seems that one of the pieces of evidence proving that the 
Jews ofjerusalem did indeed need a wakil was the fact that the matter of the 
him (the fortress), had been neglected. We do not know which fortress 
they are referring to; perhaps there is some connection between this matter 
of the fortress and the building of the wall in Jerusalem, of which I have 
already spoken. Evidently there was a legal investigation in which the 
Muslim judges relied on the evidence of two strangers, whereas none of 
the ‘adiliyya, the pious Muslims, who were qualified as witnesses and 
notaries, gave evidence against the Jews. The writer of the letter, ‘Eli 
ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, prompts the people of Ramla to influence the Ramla 
cadi, Abu’l-Ma‘ali, to go into the matter thoroughly together with the 
cadi ofjerusalem, especially into the standing of the witnesses. The cadi of 
Ramla, he writes, would have some influence on the Jerusalem cadi, for 
they both belong to the same legal school (undoubtedly meaning the 
madhhah) and the former is the more knowledgeable. 

A Jewish dignitary who had a special relationship to the rulers was 
Abraham ha-Kohn b. Isaac ibn Furat, the physician of Fustat who spent 
much of his time in Palestine, in Ramla, and apparently served there as 
physician to the governor. He is frequently mentioned in my collection, 
from Solomon b. Judah’s day onward, and we also have one of the latter’s 
letters to his father, Isaac ha-Kohen b. Furat. In this letter, he thanks him 
for supporting Ephraim b. Shemaria (one can assume that he is referring to 
the aforementioned rupture with his rivals). At that time, it seems that 
Isaac’s son, Abraham, was the one who dealt with community affairs, but 
he was away attending a funeral elsewhere. Later on, we find Abraham 

51 For the general background to the relationship with the authorities, see: Goitein, Mediter¬ 
ranean Society, II, 345-380. On the subject of the considerable influence of the notables of 
Fustat, one should mention that this was the major metropolis of the Muslim world, a 
status it owed to the Fatimids. The Jerusalemite al-MuqaddasI (Aqdltm, 36} writes: ‘Fustat 
of Egypt is like Baghdad in times past; I do not know of another city of greater importance 
in the entire Muslim world’. The letter ofjosiah: 36, a, lines 12-14. As to the Jews’ 
relatively positive attitude towards the Fatimid rulers in general, this is expressed in 
somewhat veiled terms in 214, a letter from Fustat to Zadok ha-Levi av-bet-din of the 
yeshiva injerusalem, written ca. 1030, which mainly contains complaints against a certain 
David b. al-Raqqi. It is interesting that this David swore in the ‘Palestinians’ synagogue 
(not a ritual oath) ‘by the Torah, vowing his entire property, and also by the head of the 


552 



JEWISH LEADERSHIP AND FATIMID AUTHORITIES [SECS. 778-783] 


ha-Kohen in Ramla, as mentioned, until the beginning of Daniel b. 
Azariah’s office as Gaon, when he returned to his home and family in 
Fustat. His stay in Ramla may have lasted twenty years, from the outset of 
the thirties until the beginning of the fifties. In around 1030, the Gaon 
Solomon b. Judah complained to him of the Shuway‘ family, who were 
harassing him, and asked him to obtain a letter from the amir (meaning 
undoubtedly the governor of Ramla) to his colleague (sahib; obviously the 
governor ofjerusalem) to defend him against them. This appeal on the 
part of the Gaon may have been due to some family connection as well, for 
Solomon b. Judah, as we shall see, was related by marriage to the family of 
the priestly geonim, who were relatives of Abraham ha-Kohen. Elijah 
ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon, in his letter of condolence on the death of 
Abraham’s father Isaac, calls Abraham ‘our cousin’, and also signs as ‘your 
cousin’. In a letter of thanks from an old man in Sicily, Eliah ha-Kohen 
al-Siqilll b. Jacob, the writer adds the closing expression (' alama) yesha' 
yuhash (salvation will soon come), commonly adopted by the family of the 
priestly geonim. In a note to Abraham ha-Kohen, another Jerusalemite 
Kohen, ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, who may also have been a family 
relative, speaks of a sum of money sent by Abraham to ‘Eli via the son of 
his friend, when Abraham was on his way to Egypt. Apparently, Abra¬ 
ham ha-Kohen was generally taken up with sending money to the needy in 
Jerusalem. For instance, he sends a dinar in the fifties (from al-Qahira) to 
the people ofjerusalem, who gratefully confirm its receipt. 

In some sources, it emerges that the family of Abraham ha-Kohen was 
involved in a law suit which an orphan had instituted against them, 
undoubtedly concerning an inheritance. Evidently the people of the Je¬ 
rusalem yeshiva favoured Abraham ha-Kohen in this matter, as he was 
their benefactor, and it is doubtful whether their approach in this instance 
was unprejudiced. Solomon b. Semah of Ramla, one of the intimates of 
Solomon b. Judah, writes in this vein to Ephraim b. Shemaria, ca. 1030, 
asking him to help the brother of Abraham, ibn al-‘amm (the cousin - we 
have seen already that he was the cousin of the priestly geonim). He claims 
that just as they have to protect the orphans, they also have to see to it that 
no one should be illegally deprived by them and that there is a very explicit 
law about it. All of‘our congregation’ (that is, the Palestinians in Fustat) 
would be grateful for this, and Solomon b. Semah repeats this request in 
another letter written to Ephraim b. Shemaria. The subject of this contro¬ 
versy will come up again with Daniel b. Azariah. The personality and 
standing of Abraham ha-Kohen, especially his connection with the auth¬ 
orities, were particularly important when the choice of Daniel b. Azariah 

king’. One of the complaints against him was that he belittled the king (‘and the king, what 

will he do to us’), and it is clear that he means the Fatimid caliph. 


553 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

as Gaon was being considered, a matter which shall be given further 
consideration. In addition, I shall look into the considerable extent to 
which the authorities were involved in the struggle between David b. 
Daniel and Abiathar ha-Kohen. 

In one of his letters to Abraham ha-Kohen, Daniel b. Azariah mentions 
the subject of the ruq‘a (the note) — meaning here the official document — 
which the addressee received from ‘our Lord, may God grant him long 
life’, etc., and he expresses his satisfaction and gratitude in moving terms. 
The document was issued by ‘his high excellency’, ( al-liadra al-samiya), 
evidently the wazir. The letter also mentions that Abraham has been 
offered a very high position, and the Gaon tries to convince him not to 
turn it down by any means. In another letter, Daniel asks for his inter¬ 
cession with the wazir - evidently al-Yazuri- from whom he wants a letter 
of recommendation to the governor of Jerusalem, for Daniel already has 
‘the high official document’ (al-manshur al-mukarram) which states that the 
Gaon must be treated with respect, with cordiality and that his needs be 
fulfilled. We are not absolutely certain regarding Abraham ha-Kohen’s 
handwriting, but there is reason to assume that some of the drafts of 
petitions to the caliph are in his writing, such as the letter to the caliph 
against the official recognition of a ‘Babylonian’ authority in Palestine (in 
around 1030), or the petition from the supporters of Solomon b. Judah 
(evidently from the end of 1041). There seem to have been many Jewish 
personalities at the time who sought the friendship and support of Abra¬ 
ham ha-Kohen, as we see in a letter written to him by Zakkai, the nasi, b. 
Yedidyahu the nasi, addressing him as ‘Abraham ha-Kohen the physician 
called the prince of the congregation . . . b. Isaac ha-Kohen the physician’. 
Only the opening phrases have been preserved and these are solely grandi¬ 
loquent expressions of praise. 52 

52 The Karaite governor: above, section 600: see the matter of the wall, above, sections 601, 
712. The letter of‘Eli ha-Kohen: 453. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 243, and also: 
ha-Yishuv, 123, assumed, due to an error in reading the address in 117 (see there in the 
variae lectiones), that Abraham ha-Kohen was director of the department of dysentery; but 
it says there only that he was a physician. The letter to Isaac ha-Kohen: 100; he too was a 
physician (see ibid., lines 4ff); one can assume that the support for Ephraim b. Shemaria 
implied intercession with the authorities. The fact that Abraham ha-Kohen was the court 
physician emerges from 439, in which the Jerusalem parnas ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel 
congratulates him on his marriage, saying: ‘and may He [God] make him obtain the 
goodwill of our Lord the King, may he live forever, and of the Lady (i.e. the caliph’s 
mother), and the grandees of the kingdom’. His stay in Ramla is first explicitly stated in 
229, a court record from 1038, in which he is one of the witnesses. The matter of the 
Shuway* family: 101. The letter of condolence: 414. It seems that Isaac ha-Kohen’s death 
was connected with certain political events, for it says there among other things, ‘alas for 
the generation whose noblemen and great and leaders become fewer and plucked from 
them and imprisoned’, and further on: ‘may [the God of Israel] . . . save you from the 
turmoil and give your life unto you as a prey'. Mann, Jews, I, 84, found here proof that 
Isaac ha-Kohen did not die a natural death. The letter of Eliah ha-Kohen al-Siqilll: 439a; 


554 



JEWISH LEADERSHIP AND FATIMID AUTHORITIES [SECS. 778-783] 

[780] Towards the mid-eleventh century, the Tustari brothers, Abu 
Nasr Fadl (Hesed) and Abu Sa‘d Ibrahim (Abraham), the sons of Abu’l- 
Fadl Sahl (Yashar) b. Israel, occupied a singular status in the relationship 

the letter was sent to Ramla, as it says in the address. The note of‘Eli ha-Kohen: 437. The 
letter to the people ofjerusalem: 439; the time of the letter is confirmed by the title ‘Pride of 
the Elders’, which we know that Daniel b. Azariah granted him; at that time, Abraham 
still had no offspring (certainly no sons), for heis wished that God shall ‘provide him with 
the right seed’. Six people sign the letter, the last (that is, the most important) being ‘Eli 
ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel. The letters of Solomon b. Semah: 205, 206. The nickname ibn 
al-'Amm - cf. 76, lines 11-12. As to the family relationship, if we assume that Furat is 
Porat, (see the Hebrew Bible, Gen., xlix:22) it is possible that the name of the family’s 
father in an earlier generation was Joseph; and then one may assume that Isaac ha-Kohen 
the father of Abraham was the brother of the Gaon Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph. When 
he returned to Egypt, Abraham ha-Kohen evidently played an important role in the 
community. It is characteristic that he expected that the leader of the congregation, the 
judge ( he-haver ha-me'ulle) ‘Eli b. ‘Amram would take the trouble to visit him on some 
matter and not the contrary. TS 13J31, f. 5 (edited in Mann, Jews, II, 84f with the Arabic 
part missing) is a letter from ‘Eli b. ‘Amram to Abraham ha-Kohen, in which he in fact 
promises him that: ‘you are praised by anybody whenever there is an assembly or a lesson 
... in His (i.e. God’s) house, the yeshiva^e’dK ya’aqov’. At the same time, he apologises for 
not coming to him, for there is no one to replace him in his shop (Goitein, Shalem, 2 
[1975/6], 64 = ha-Yishuv, 150, interprets that an office is being spoken of, that is, of the 
dayyan, not a shop). One should note that ‘Eli b. ‘Amram ends his letter with the ‘alama - 
yesha‘ yuhash - of the priestly family, the rivals of Daniel b. Azariah, and this is no 
coincidence. In 354 Daniel b. Azariah indeed wrote to Abraham ha-Kohen that the local 
haver (that is, ‘Eli) will be his subordinate. See the matter of the ruq‘a and the office in 355, 
b, lines 3 ff and lines 26-30. Goitein, Shalem, 2(1935/6), 81 ff (= ha-Yishuv, 163), assumes 
that the Nagid, Judah b. Saadia, is being referred to. The request for a recommendation: 
357, b, lines 21-27. Drafts in the handwriting of Abraham ha-Kohen: 312, 197. Also in his 
handwriting apparently, is 399, which contains accusations against ‘Eli he-haver b. 
‘Amram, leader of the ‘Palestinians’ in Fustat during Daniel b. Azariah's time. Zakkai the 
nasi: TS 13J 15, f. 14, was edited by Mann, Jews, II, 83f; Halper, Hatequfa, 18(1922/3), 
191 f, claims that this letter is actually a poem (but this is not so, since we only have its 
beginning); similarly Worman, JQR, 19(1907), 734, defines it as ‘a poetical epistle’. One 
cannot identify the lineage of that nasi, cf. Mann, ibid. , I, 85, and see his comments in n. 1 
on a Karaite nasi whose name was Yedldya, mentioned in a document from 1081, who 
may have been the son of this Zakkai (despite Mann’s reservations regarding this possi¬ 
bility, for how could a Karaite nasi praise Abraham ha-Kohen for ‘the excellent titles’ and 
for the ‘ranks’ he received from the yeshivot?- referring to his honorary titles). Poznanski, 
Babylonische Geonim, 122, tried to link this Zakkai to the nesi’hn of Mosul (who flourished 
in the second half of the twelfth century) but this does not fit chronologically. Concerning 
the titles of Abraham ha-Kohen (see in the Hebrew Index), one should note that he is 
generally called, sar ha-'eda (prince of the congregation), a title perhaps granted him by 
Solomon b. Judah. Apart from this, he is also called ‘the splendour of the princes’, ‘the 
elder of the two parties’ (that is: ‘Palestinians’ and ‘Babylonians’), ‘glory of the priesthood’ 
or ‘glory of the priests’. In 354, the Gaon Daniel b. Azariah informs him that he has 
decided to add to his titles ‘pride of the elders’. It is worth mentioning that his father, Isaac 
ha-Kohen, bore the title ‘the elder of the communities’, see: 101, lines 1-3; 117, lines 1-4. 
In an opening fragment of a deed of attorney written in Ramla, Isaac, the father of 
Abraham ‘the prince counsellor, the physician son of . .. Abraham the elder of the 
communities in Ramla’ gives a power of attorney to Judah (nicknamed Asad) b. Moses. 
SeeTS NS 324.67, edited by Friedman, Tarbiz, 49(1979/80), 203. Friedman assumes that a 
son of Abraham is meant there, but it is more likely that it is his father, both because in the 
relatively numerous letters mentioning Abraham, there is no mention of his having a son, 


555 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


between the yeshiva and the Fatimid rulers. This was a family of mer¬ 
chants and financiers which had its roots in the Persian city of Tustar, 
hence their name. They were Karaites, but belonged to a separate faction 
within the Karaite community, one that was actually called ‘the Tustaris’. 
A branch of this family settled in Egypt, evidently at the beginning of the 
century. The two aforementioned Tustari brothers, Hesed and Abraham, 
are noted in Arab sources in connection with their financial activities and 
also with the important political standing they had achieved at the Fatimid 
court. Abraham in particular occupied a significant place in this sphere, 
apparently owing to his special connections with the Caliph al-Mustan- 
sir’s mother. She was black and a former slave, the property of Abraham 
al-Tustari, who had sold her to Caliph al-Zahir and she was the mother of 
his successor, al-Mustansir. During the subsequent disturbances, she 
backed the black units of the caliph’s army in the continuous conflict 
between them and the Turks and the Berbers. Abraham’s rise to such a 
high rank thus began in 1036, evidently, with the death of al-Zahir, and in 
the summer of 1044, he earned the official status of wasita, a form of chief 
administrator on behalf of the caliph’s mother, a status similar to that of 
wazir. His involvement in the struggle between the various factions in the 
Fatimid army eventually led to his assassination by Turkish soldiers, on 25 
October 1047. The older brother Hesed was also involved in Fatimid 
politics. In around 1040, he was appointed chief clerk ( katib) to Anushtakln 
al-Dizbirl, who then commanded the army in Palestine and consequently 
ruled the country. After his brother’s murder, he was busy negotiating on 
behalf of the Fatimids with the ruler of Aleppo, Thimal b. Salih b. Mirdas. 
However, Thimal then violated the agreement that had been reached 
between the two parties and launched out against the Fatimid army in 
northern Syria. In consequence, Hesed al-Tustari was then accused of 
spying for Thimal while playing the role of mediator, in order to avenge 
the murder of his brother; consequently he was tortured and executed in 
the summer of the year 1049. 

Although they belonged to a Karaite faction, the Tustaris had close 
contacts with the entire Jewish community in Egypt and other countries 
under Fatimid rule, and they frequently exploited their connection with 
the rulers for the benefit of the communities and particularly for the Jews 
ofjerusalem and its yeshiva. This again goes to prove that the yeshiva was 


and also because Abraham left Ramla for Egypt in the early fifties of the eleventh century. 
One should also consider 404, in its full text as edited by me in Te'uda, 7 (1991), 331ff, 
where it is clear that an appeal was being made to Abraham ha-Kohen, to intercede with 
the wazir against a Christian governor named b. Jurjis, who was wronging thejews of the 
city (we do not know which). 


556 



JEWISH LEADERSHIP AND FATIMID AUTHORITIES [SECS. 778-783] 

the recognised representative of all the Jews, including the Karaites and 
their various factions. In this context, our sources mostly mention the 
older brother Hesed, but it seems that Abraham was also involved in the 
affairs of the Jewish communities. 

In the draft of a letter, probably dated ca. 1043, Ephraim b. Shemaria 
asks the Gaon Solomon b. Judah to write a letter of thanks to Hesed b. Sahl 
al-Tustarl, ‘the great old man ... to be grateful to him, for he is busy with 
all our troubles and holds the bridle as tightly as he can, in order to assist us 
.. . and how much he loves the well-being of our people! May [God] grant 
him a covenant of well-being, and also to his seed’. 

In around 1035, we find ‘the elders al-Dasatira’ heading a list of donors to 
a special fund organised by the Rabbanites and Karaites in Fustat for the 
Jews ofjerusalem. The Tustaris’ brother-in-law, Sahlawayh b. Hayyim, 
is also mentioned there. The Tustaris are also frequently mentioned in the 
letters of Solomon b. Judah; we do not find direct appeals to them, but he 
addresses the leaders of the Fustat community, Ephraim b. Shemaria and 
Sahlan b. Abraham, and asks them to get the Tustaris’ support, particu¬ 
larly that of Hesed (‘the mighty old man’, ‘the elder of the house of Israel’) 
in matters required by the yeshiva. 

The yeshiva went out of its way to secure the Tustaris’ assistance after 
the terrible events of 1024—1029, when the people ofjerusalem were being 
pressed to pay the enormous debt imposed on them. The yeshiva tried to 
have those imprisoned debtors released and asked that the Tustaris try to 
influence the authorities to this end. Solomon b. Judah then asked his son 
Abraham, who was staying in Fustat, to urge Abu Kathir, who is Ephraim 
b. Shemaria, to act in this matter, and he complains that the letters he 
wrote to Hesed al-Tustari were of no avail. The Gaon is saddened by this, 
for Hesed is close to the seat of power, and ‘there are none among us who 
have greater wealth or standing’. Another of the Gaon’s letters is directed 
to the attention of the Tustaris, and in it we find details concerning the 
sufferings of those debtors who are imprisoned in Damascus. They threat¬ 
en to write leaflets (pittdqin) complaining that the Gaon is doing nothing to 
save them, and to have these leaflets distributed throughout the city. It 
mentions that they were visited in prison by the shaltsh, by which they 
probably meant the katib , the chief clerk. After consulting experts in 
Muslim law, it was decided that a witness should come forward and give 
evidence that the endrejewish community ofjerusalem owed this money, 
and by this means, get the prisoners released (evidently the intention 
being that it was not the personal responsibility of each debtor but a 
communal responsibility). In further letters, the Gaon insists that only the 
Tustaris could help in this matter. As we shall see below, the Tustaris were 
very involved in the dispute between Solomon b. Judah and Nathan b. 


557 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


Abraham, in favour of the latter, and did not refrain from using their 
influence with the rulers for this purpose. 53 

[781] In general, it seems that there was no love lost between the yeshiva 
and the local rulers in Jerusalem. A letter of the yeshiva, apparently from 
1057, notes that seated in Jerusalem are ‘the worst of gentiles’ ‘the sons of 
Kedar in Jerusalem and Palestine... who are very troublesome’; it speaks 
there of‘the pride of an ungodly nation which took over our temple’, and 
so on. Nevertheless, in everyday life it is possible that things were differ¬ 
ent, and that when stability reigned, a good relationship developed be¬ 
tween the yeshiva and the authorities and also with the local Muslim 
population. The Jews of Jerusalem were very aware of the change of 
governors and tried to influence their choice, as we see in a letter of 
Solomon b. Judah (or his son Abraham), where it is hinted that the change 
of governors is decided by the exertion of pressure in Egypt, and includes a 
sort of report on the mutawalli, the governor about to arrive in Jerusalem, 
of whom good reports were heard. 

We find instances of the Gaon acting on behalf of a local Muslim, 
speaking of cases in which lives are at stake; and then the Gaon uses his 
channels of influence among the central authorities in Fustat. This was the 
case with Qayn b. ‘Abd al-Qadir, undoubtedly a participant in the war of 
the Arabs against the Fatimids (1024-1029), and evidently a man from 
Ramla. Now, he is awaiting punishment for ‘his first deeds’. Murajja, ‘an 
elder from among the town’s notables’, is trying to get help for him from 
Solomon b. Judah. Qayn himself, along with his family, came to implore 
the Gaon to try to get his influential friend in Egypt to help. On the other 
hand, Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac b. Furat asks Murajja’s son, the cadi 
Abu’l-Ma‘ali (al-Musharraf), to try to get justice done for the Shuway' 
family, who have been unjustly deprived of their house by a wicked 
Muslim, a matter I have already mentioned. Some years later, Daniel b. 


53 The sources and research dealing with the Tustaris I have summarised elsewhere, see: Gil, 
ha-Tustarim, and especially 38-57. As to the murder of the Tustaris, Mann was of the 
opinion that they were both assassinated on the same day, see Mann.Jeics, I, 78-83. See in 
Gil, ibid., 42f, the discussion on this and additional references there. The appointment of 
Hesed al-Tustari as chief clerk of al-Dizbiri: TS AS 157.231-232r, see Gil, ibid., 95 
(supplement 6). See the draft of Ephraim b. Shemaria: 334. The list of donors: 326. 
Solomon b. Judah’s letter to his son: 80, b, lines 8-12. The matter of the pittaqw, etc.: 65; 
the letter was written in ca. 1025, and cannot relate to the arrest of the two priestly brothers 
Joseph and Elijah, the sons of Solomon Gaon (contrary to what is said in Sefer ha-Yishuv, 
24, n. 76), since Elhanan b. Shemaria is mentioned, who died before Iyar 4386 (1026; cf. 
Mann, Jews, I, 41). The rest of Solomon b. Judah’s letters: 84, a, lines 4—13; 91; 103; in 143, 
which is an opening fragment of a letter from the Gaon (written by his son) to Ephraim b. 
Shemaria, one feels the dependence on the Tustaris and the fear that their anger may be 
aroused. Ephraim is asked to speak appeasingly to ‘the mighty elder, the elder of the house 
of Israel'and‘to mollify his wrath’. This was written, it seems, after the arrival ofa letter of 
complaint from Hesed to the Gaon. 


558 



JEWISH LEADERSHIP AND FATIMID AUTHORITIES [SECS. 778-783] 


Azariah asks the same Abraham ha-Kohen to do what he can for a 
particular family, one of whose sons is imprisoned and scheduled to be 
executed on the morrow. It is not clear where or when this is happening, 
and actually one can only assume that here, too, it is a Muslim who is being 
referred to. 54 

[782] Some details that have been preserved give us an inkling of the 
authorities’ and the local military’s persecution of the Jewish population. 
There is the case of a Jewish debtor, for instance, the brother of a certain 
Daniel b. Sahl, whom one of the Berber commanders of the Banu Kitama 
wanted to take as his slave. A complaint about it was sent from Fustat to 
Josiah Gaon in Jerusalem after Elhanan, rosh ha-seder (that is, Elhanan b. 
Shemaria) dealt with the matter unsuccessfully, evidently, and the Gaon is 
asked to use his influence. To this matter of persecution, one can also add 
the local friction concerning taxes, which has already been discussed. 

A fragment of one of Daniel b. Azariah’s letters informs us of a decree or 
injustice on the part of someone from Ramla (al-Ramli, perhaps the 
governor?), and he demands that someone should intervene in this matter 
with the authorities, requesting particularly the intervention of the Fustat 
parnas ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim. The names of certain Muslim dignitaries 
are mentioned: the cadi Thiqa al-Dawla, the amir Munjib al-Dawla, the 
amir al-‘Ammam. There was also the case of an informer, as we see in the 
letter of Solomon b. Judah to Ephraim b. Shemaria, in ca. 1030, which 
contains information concerning a man who engaged in ‘cheating and 
conniving’ and served ‘the clerks of the taxes and inheritance’ for many 
years, and would mediate between them and the Jews who applied to them 
in matters concerning legacies, and would determine the amount of the tax 
they had to pay, to the detriment of the Jews. He was like a ‘brother and 
friend’ of the Muslim officials. A man whose close relative had died would 
need a confirmation from him that the deceased actually had heirs (or else 
the authorities would confiscate his property); he would also mediate 
between the authorities and people who came from other countries, such 
as from the Maghrib. It is possible that the same man occupied the Gaon in 
a letter written some years later, to some unidentified person in Fustat. 
Wicked Jews are mentioned in the letter, and especially the informer, who 
squealed to the rulers. He says that he has already asked Ephraim b. 
Shemaria to assemble thejewish notables and to go with them to the amirs 


54 The change of governors: 142, lines 11—12. The letter of the yeshiva: 420, b, lines 34ff; c, 
lines 33ff. The case ofQayn: 99, cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society , II, 243; this Murajjja is 
evidently the father of the writer, the cadi Abu’l-Ma‘ali al-Musharraf ibn al-Murajja, as 
stated above. The house of the Shuway' family: 117. The appeal of Daniel b. Azariah: 351. 
The fleeing of the prisoners mentioned by Solomon b. Judah in 156, a, line 20, is 
something of a puzzle. 


559 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

and try to influence them to act against the informer; he adds that Ephraim 
b. Shemaria in particular could be helpful here. 55 

[783] At times, when relations between the Rabbanites and the Karaites 
became tense, the authorities would be summoned to intervene in the 
internal affairs of thejews in Jerusalem. A pretext for intervention was the 
custom of pronouncing a ban on the Karaites during the gathering on 
Hosha'na Rabba, the last day of the Feast of Tabernacles, on the Mount of 
Olives, when masses ofjewish pilgrims tojerusalem gathered there. From 
the letters of Solomon b. Judah, one can see that he tried to abolish this 
custom for a number of reasons: firstly, he was evidently a man of peace; 
secondly, the authorities wanted this custom revoked; and thirdly, he was 
obliged on behalf of the yeshiva to the Tustari brothers, who were also 
Karaites, and who had aided thejews ofjerusalem and the yeshiva to such 
a great extent. We shall return to this ban in the discussion on the Karaites 
below. Here I shall describe the intervention of the authorities in the event: 
after a number of the central figures of the yeshiva were insistent about 
proclaiming this ban on the Karaites, although they had been warned not 
to do so, the authorities intervened and those who had proclaimed the 
excommunication, the priestly brothers, Joseph and Elijah, sons of Solo¬ 
mon Gaon, were jailed. Leading the soldiers of the Fatimid unit who acted 
against the gathering during the pronouncement of the ban stood Mu'tazz 
al-Dawla, who was evidently governor of jund Filastln at the time. The 
Gaon was then forced, as a counter-measure, to activate the Rabbanites in 
Fustat, and especially a number of prominent people of the ‘Babylonian’ 
congregation who had influence and access to the court. This he did 
through the mediation of Sahlan b. Abraham, leader of the Babylonians. 
Through the intercession of these personalities, the caliph and the wazlr 
issued special orders. The authorities presented very tough conditions, 
among them the demand that the Gaon stop the custom of excommuni¬ 
cating the Karaites on the Mount of Olives; that the Karaites would be 
permitted to open their own butcher shop in the Jewish market, which 
would not be under the supervision of the Rabbanites; that the Rabbanite 
butchers would not slaughter pregnant cows, in order that the Karaites 
would not have to use their meat (according to their interpretation of Lev., 
xxii:28 - ‘ye shall not kill it and her young both in one day’); and that if 
Karaite holidays fell on different days from those of the Rabbanites, they 
would be permitted to open their shops during the Rabbanite holidays. 

The caliph then issued tw r o separate orders, one at the request of the 
Karaites and the other at the request of the Rabbanites, and it is clear that 

55 The matter of the KitamI: 28. Daniel b. Azariah’s letter: 381. The informer: 84, b, II, lines 
18ff. On matters of inheritance of the sort mentioned here, see: Gil, Documents, 6f. The 
additional letter about the informer: 119, lines 6-15, 


560 



JEWISH LEADERSHIP AND FATIMID AUTHORITIES [SECS. 778-783] 


this was planned to maintain a balance between the two sides and to 
display the ruler’s impartiality. The order in favour of the Karaites has 
been preserved in its entirety and in its original. It is dated 11 Jumada I AH 
425, 3 April AD 1034, and is still preserved in the Karaite synagogue in 
Cairo. The amir al-juyush (commander of the armies) to whom the caliph 
(al-Zahir) addresses this order without mentioning his name, is undoubt¬ 
edly Anushtakln al-Dizbiri, which goes to prove that in 1034 he was still 
holding his post in Palestine. As to its contents, it determines (1) that every 
sect will continue to observe its own religious precepts, without affecting 
or interfering with the other, (2) that tradesmen (or artisans) in each sect 
will decide for themselves on which holidays they shall work, (3) that no 
sect shall attack the other, (4) that anyone violating these rules will be 
severely punished, and (5) that the Karaite synagogue is the sole property 
of the Karaites and no one else may interfere with it. The caliph placed the 
responsibility for carrying out the terms of the order on the amir al-juyush 
and the rest of the governors ruling Palestine. 

Unlike the order in favour of the Karaites, the order in favour of the 
Rabbanites has not been preserved in the original, but a version is included 
in a copy in Hebrew script, which was evidently executed on the basis of a 
notebook of drafts in the archives of the Fatimid court. At the beginning 
there is a list of the Rabbanites’ major demands from the caliph, according 
to which they ask that they and their leaders should not be hindered in their 
observance of the precepts and customs of their religion in Palestine (‘in 
Jerusalem, Ramla, and the other cities’); they also request that those whose 
actions are not in accordance with accepted custom be restrained, meaning 
that there should be some authority and coercion over the Karaites. The 
reference here is undoubtedly to the yeshiva’s authority over the Karaites, 
which was expressed in precisely those matters which the Karaites wished 
to be free of: kashrut, holidays and the synagogue order (which may also 
have included matters of judgment and law). From the text of the caliph’s 
order, it is obvious that these demands were not met. On the contrary, 
there is a repetition of what was said in the aforementioned order which 
sided with the Karaites, with the emphasis chiefly on non-disturbance and 
non-interference by either sect towards the other. At the same time, it says 
there that the authorities would not comply with the Karaites’ request to 
banish the Rabbanite personalities from Jerusalem and from Filastin 
(meaning Ramla), and this clearly has some connection with the priestly 
brothers, Joseph and Elijah, imprisoned in Damascus. 56 
56 See 92, a, lines 1-14, with a description of the quarrel and hints on the affair of the 
prisoners, until salvation arrived with the order of the king (that is, the caliph) and the 
mishne (the wazlr); the Karaites had more influence on the authorities, because of their 
many ‘princes and scribes and wealthy’ (meaning mainly the Tustaris), see there lines 
16-22. The intervention of Mu’tazz al-Dawla: 85, lines 17-22 (which speaks about ‘the 


561 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

Calendrical matters 


[784] Deciding the calendrical order was the exclusive prerogative of the 
Sanhedrin in ancient times, and although the order was undoubtedly 
recorded at a very early period and was available for study, the Sanhedrin, 
that is the yeshiva, guarded its symbolic right to pronounce the calendrical 
order and the holidays. The Targum of the Song of Solomon interprets 
‘thine eyes like the fishpools in Heshbon’ (vii:4) as ‘these are the scribes, 
who proclaim leap years and determine new years and new months at the 
gate of the Great Sanhedrin’. We find similar statements in Pirkei de-Rabbi 
Eliezer (ch. viii), dealing mainly with the exclusive right of Palestine to 
determine matters concerning the calendar, for ‘nobody has the right to 
proclaim a leap year outside Palestine’. In the eleventh century, we still 
find ‘ascending [the Mount of Olives] and proclaiming as was the custom, 
the order of God’s holy days’, as written by Solomon b. Judah in one of his 

prince who rules the city’, and about ‘the ruler of the country, called Mu‘tazz al-Dawla’). 
Also in another of his letters, 84, lines 12-13, Solomon b. Judah notes the Karaites’ 
advantage in money matters, thanks to their nesi’hn ; evidently speaking of Hezekiah and 
Josiah, the sons of Solomon, cf. Mann, Texts, II, 47. And further: Solomon b. Judah knew 
well the Karaites’ ability to obtain the intervention of the authorities, with the help of the 
Tustari brothers. He writes to Abraham b. Sahlan about the Tustaris’ request that he 
should receive the Karaite nasi, whois about to arriveinjerusalem, cordially, and demands 
in this respect: ‘and it is my desire that he should leave with a letter from the Kingdom, 
may God defend it, to give him strength against those who foment contention’. We do not 
know what quarrel he is speaking of, but perhaps he is referring to thejerusalem Karaites, 
who have to be restrained with the help of the nasi and the letter from the authorities; see 
64. In 90 Solomon b. Judah thanks Sahlan b. Abraham and the people of his congregation 
for having obtained the letters from the caliph and the wazlr concerning the prisoners in 
Damascus, that is, the priestly brothers Joseph and Elijah. The condition of their release, as 
they were informed by ‘Adi b. Manasseh b. al-Qazzaz, was that they take upon themselves 
not to be engaged in appointing haverlm nor hold any other office, and that they would 
not be permitted to enter Jerusalem or Ramla; and see ibid, also their demands from the 
Gaon. The matter of the shop in the Jewish market and the order of the holidays proves, it 
seems to me, that most of thejews injerusalem were Rabbanites, and that, at any rate, the 
standing of the Karaites there was lower. The official order in favour of the Karaites was 
first edited by Gottheil, Harkavy Festschriji, 115-125, and then again by Stem, Fatimid 
Decrees, 23ff; Stern did not see the document but made certain amendments, according to 
his understanding and common sense. The date printed in both editions is not correct; in 
line 47 it is: sana kharns wa-'ishriin, the year 425, and not 415, as copied by Gottheil. This 
date indeed fell on a Wednesday, as stated in the document. Further, concerning Gottheil’s 
edition and Stern’s corrections: The order of lines 1-7 is as Gottheil copied them and not as 
Stem amended them; in line 32 it is written: wltnth; all the other corrections proposed by 
Stem are correct and substantiated by the excellent photograph at the Institute of Micro¬ 
filmed Hebrew MSs. at the National Library injerusalem. The other order: 310, and see 
references in the foreword there. Here and there, some other orders issued by the caliph on 
Jewish matters are mentioned, and we have already discussed above the matter of the 
orders of appointment of geonim. In the autumn of 1070, Abiathar ha-Kohen writes to the 
Fustat parnas ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim and asks him to put pressure on Abii Nasr b. 
al-Faraj (we do not know who or what he was) to obtain the sijill for the Jerusalemites 
(al-maqadisa) , see 547, b, lines 15-16. 


562 



CALENDRICAL MATTERS [SECS. 784-789] 

letters (in ca. 1030). From this letter, it is clearly indicated that the procla¬ 
mation was made on Hosha'na Rabba, the seventh day of the Feast of 
Tabernacles, and not, as was customary according to ancient tradition, in 
the month of Av, as We find specifically in an early commentary to the 
Babylonian Talmud, Sanh. 12a: ‘and when does one decide on it? In the 
month of Av, and this has been the custom until now that in the fifth 
month the leap year is determined’. In the sources on the dispute over the 
calendar in the tenth century, we encounter the Palestinian Gaon writing 
on ‘the proclamation of the order of holidays by our scholars’, and he 
blames the Babylonians ‘and you gave up the proclamation on the Mount 
of Olives and threw it behind your backs’, and Saadia Gaon notes that the 
Palestinian Gaon ‘sent his son in the seventh month . .. and he came to 
Jerusalem and spread the word’, and so on. From a letter of Abraham, 
Solomon b. Judah’s son, written in about 1045, we learn that it was at first 
customary to announce the calendrical order ( al-Hbbur , the intercalation) in 
the synagogue injerusalem on New Year’s Day, but for some reason, they 
could not ‘go down to the synagogue’ that year (undoubtedly due to some 
restrictive order). Abraham’s house was not suitable for this purpose and 
therefore they gathered at the house of the av-bet-dm, who was Joseph 
ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon at that time. 57 

57 See the matter of‘the handing over of the secret’ of the calendrical order to the sages and 
the Sanhedrin in the Scroll of Abiathar, 559, ix, lines 5f, and the note to line 6 there. The 
Targum to the Song of Solomon, see the Sperber edition, 138 (instead of ‘wvdy it should 
read ‘wbry, as in better MSs); cf. on this matter: Marx, JQR, NS 1(1910/1), 6ff. Solomon 
b. Judah: 85, lines 17-18. Cf. Mann, Texts, I, 316, in the note, who quotes from the 
commentary to the Talmud, then found in TS Box F 8, but today its shelf-mark is: TS Box 
G 2, fs. 18-21; cf. also Assaf, Teshuuot (1941/2), 147, 154. See the sources: Bornstein, 
Sokolow Jubilee Volume, 74f, 105; Guillaume, JQR, NS 5(1914/5), 546ff; contrary to 
Bornstein's opinion (based on the version which he had before him, in which it was 
written: in the fourth month), that one should count from Nisan and say that the fourth 
month was Tammuz there, was the view of Epstein, Hagoren, 5(1905/6), 138f, that one 
must count from Tishri and thus Tevet was meant, and that the purpose of the procla¬ 
mation was merely to state the date of Passover; and following it also: Maker, Saadia, 81, 
n. 168. Recently an additional and important fragment from the Sefer ha-Md'adim was 
published, seeTS NS 194.92, ed. Fleischer, Zion, 49(1984), 379f; and see ibid., p. 385. This 
fragment solved the riddle about the alleged proclamation of the calendrical order in the 
fourth month (‘sent his son’-that is, Meir Gaon sent Aaron-‘in the fourth month’) for we 
now have a more reliable version of what Saadia Gaon said, namely: in the seventh month, 
and the intention is to the proclamation on the accepted date, which is the last day of the 
Feast of Tabernacles, in the gathering on the Mount of Olives, The letter of Abraham son 
of the Gaon: 141, line 3. In 27, a letter from the year 1021 of the exilarch Hezekiah b. David 
concerning Elhanan b. Shemaria, there is no trace of calendar matters (line 8), contrary to 
what was suggested by Kamenetzky, REJ, 55(1908), 49ff; and what he again claimed ibid., 
56 (the same year), 255, as Poznanski already understood, ibid., 55, p. 248; cf. Abramson, 
Ba-merkazim, 110, n. 29. In the scroll of Abiathar, 559, b, lines 19-21, it says that Elijah 
ha-Kohen Gaon ‘went to Haifa to sanctify the year’; although it is not definitely stated 
there, one can assume that the reference is to the last day of the Feast of Tabernacles, 18 
September 1082; the yeshiva was then in Tyre and its people came to Haifa in order that the 
ceremony take place on Palestinian soil. 


563 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

[785] In view of the survival of the ancient tradition of having the 
Palestinian yeshiva proclaim the calendrical order, the famous affair of the 
dispute between this yeshiva and the Babylonian Jewish leadership on this 
issue seems very strange indeed. This is an interesting and raging chapter 
in the annals of the period. It was as if the nesVfm of Palestine and the 
Babylonian exilarchs of Talmudic times had returned to life and were 
struggling with each other over the hegemony of the diaspora, with the 
proclamation of a leap year and the order of the holidays serving as 
significant symbolic expressions of supremacy. 

For the most part, the rift centred on the question of when Passover was 
to be celebrated in AM 4682 - whether on Sunday, as the Palestinian 
yeshiva demanded, or on Tuesday, as the Babylonians preferred. It had 
been accepted that the Gaon Aaron b. Meir stood at the head of the 
Palestinians in the quarrel. As will become apparent, the Palestinian Gaon 
at that time was his father, Meir, but Aaron (whom the sources generally 
call Ben Meir) was the head spokesman in this affair. Naturally, the 
communities in Palestine itself sided with the yeshiva, but evidently the 
communities in Egypt did as well. It should be noted that this rift took 
place during the renewal of Abbasid rule in Palestine (905-935), between 
that of the Tulunids and the Ikhshidids. Undoubtedly this also meant a 
significant improvement in the connections between Palestine and Baby¬ 
lonia, and to a certain extent, a larger degree of Palestinian dependence on 
Babylonia in all their dealings with the central authorities. In order to 
understand the background, one should also bear in mind that on the eve 
of this rift, Babylonia itself was in the midst of an internal quarrel, with the 
yeshiva of Pumbedita divided between the disciples ofMevasser and those 
of Kohen Sedeq, the rival Gaon, who was supported by the exilarch David 
b. Zakkai. In addition, one must remember that Saadia was still a new¬ 
comer to Babylonia, after a journey from Egypt of more than six years, 
most of which he evidently spent in Tiberias. Another detail to bear in 
mind is that the rupture took place one or two generations after the first 
settlement of Karaites in Jerusalem. They were then a young sect, eager to 
win over people, and it is well known that in calendrical matters, they 
would not accept Rabbanite computation, but continued to determine the 
beginning of the month according to the actual appearance of the new 
moon, and to decide on the leap year according to the avtv, the ripening of 
the grain, in Palestine. 58 

58 Most of the sources dealing with the dispute were collected and edited by Bornstein in his 
comprehensive article on the subject, in the Sokolow Jubilee Volume , 19-189 (and also 
published separately). Added to it: Hirschfeld, JQR, 16(1903/4), 295ff; Guillaume (see 
previous note); Adler, REJ, 67(1914), 44ff; Bornstein returned to the subject in another 
article, in Hatequfa, 14—15:321: 16:228, 1921/2; and see in Bornstein references to earlier 
research, and particularly in Sokolow Jubilee Volume, 52—58. 


564 



CALENDRICAL MATTERS [SECS. 784-789] 


[786] In the summer of AM 4681 (AD 921), Saadia learned of the 
Palestinian Gaon’s intention to celebrate the Passover of AM 4682 on 
Sunday (by announcing that Marheshwan and Kislev of AM 4681 were 
both months of twenty-nine days). He was then in Aleppo, en route to Iraq. 
He left his native Egypt not later than AD 915, for he mentions in his 
letter, in which he writes about the seeds of the quarrel which broke out in 
AD 921 (Kislev 1233 Sel.), that it was six and a half years since he last had 
news from Egypt. Mann even assumed that the onset of the quarrel was a 
personal confrontation between Ben Meir and Saadia during the latter’s 
stay in Palestine. A year and a half later Saadia writes from Baghdad (his 
third letter) and reproaches the people of Fustat who were drawn on by the 
Palestinian Gaon, that is, they celebrated Passover on Sunday, and he 
demands that they correct their erroneous way. 

Even before the discovery of documents in the Geniza dealing with the 
rift, the matter was known from the letter of rebuke written by the Karaite 
Sahl ha-Kohen b. Masliah, a contemporary of Saadia Gaon. In the letter, 
he hints that the cause of the rift was Saadia Gaon ( ha-PTtomT- hinting at the 
Fayyum in Egypt, the region where Saadia was born - ‘he who enticed 
people’; there is a pun on the word ‘enticed’, pitta, which in Hebrew 
sounds close to Pitom). He adds that just as there were those in Palestine 
who followed the Babylonians, in Babylonia (‘in the land of Shin‘ar’), 
there were those who followed the people of Palestine. Another ancient 
source which recorded the dispute is the chronicle of the Syrian Elias of 
Nisibis, who wrote in the first half of the eleventh century. Writing of the 
year Sel. 1233 (AD 921/2), he reports that ‘a division fell between thejews 
of the West and the Jews of the East over the computation of their 
holidays; thejews of the West celebrated their New Year on Tuesday 
while those of the East on Thursday’. The surprising fact is that our two 
major sources of information on Babylonian Jewry of the tenth century — 
the account of Nathan the Babylonian and the letter of Sherira Gaon - say 
nothing at all about this quarrel between Babylonia and Palestine. 59 

[787] The fact that the Babylonians prevailed in the long run proves that 
their authority was greater than that of the Palestinian geonim; and leaves 

59 The first letter of Saadia Gaon, see Bornstein, Sokolow Jubilee Volume, 81 ff, and see the 
facsimile of part ofit, in Halper, Hatequfa, 20(1922/3), 279; the address (written in Arabic 
letters) tells us that the letter was sent to Abu’l-Faraj Salim, Abu Ishaq Abraham, Abu Sahl 
‘Ezra, by Sa'id b. Yusuf Ra’s al-kull ( rosh katta ), to Qasr al-Sham' (‘the candles fortress’) in 
Fustat, to the shop ( dukkdn) of ‘ Ali b. Salim; cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 444, n. 5; 
it seems that Salim is none other than Rabbana Shelama in the third letter of Saadia Gaon, 
see: Hirschfeld, JQR, 16(1904), 295fF at the end, and Bornstein, Hatequfa, 16(1921/2), 
246f. This letter was written on 11 Tevet 1233 Sel., 3 January AD 923, that is, after the 
event. See the letter of rebuke in Pinsker, Liqqute qadmoniydt, II, 36; see Elias of Nisibis: 
Baethgen, 84 and in CSCO, 204ff. Adler, JQR, 2(1890), 106, called attention to it, but 
there was no reaction to his remarks at that time for the many sources in the Geniza were 


56s 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

no doubt that this was largely due to the personality of Saadia, even before 
he was the Gaon of Sura. This can be seen from the offensive remarks in 
the Palestinian Gaon’s letters, aimed mainly at Saadia: ‘Sa’Id b. Yusuf 
al-Dilasi’ (he came of a locality called Dilaz in the Fayyum), and also 
against the two other protagonists in the quarrel, the exilarch David 
(Da’itd) b. Zakkai, and the head of the Pumbedita yeshiva, Kohen Sedeq 
(the Palestinian Gaon calls him: ‘Kohen’). Of Saadia, he writes: ‘the son of 
Fayyum! of Dilas, of whom it has been clearly revealed to us by reliable 
witnesses who attested that his father would strike with the hammer as an 
idolater in the Land of Egypt and eat non-kosher food and was driven 
from Egypt and died in Jaffa’. He also calls Saadia a Canaanite, among 
other things. In retaliation, we encounter pejorative names being aimed at 
the Palestinian Gaon Meir and his son: he is called ‘the malignant’ ( mam’n, 
a pun on his name, Meir); ‘the darkener’ (as against Meir, which means 
‘the one who lightens’); he is said to have tried to divert Israel ‘from the 
way of light to that of darkness’, and so on. 

There is no point in going into the details of the dispute, that is, to probe 
into the basis of the Palestinian arguments, at this juncture. Bornstein 
thought that they were based on an ancient system of computation which 
differed from that of the Babylonians. Cassuto, who was at variance with 
him on a number of details and who attempted to define precisely the 
difference between the two systems, also admitted that basically the 
Palestinians computed the calendar according to a system of their own. He 
tried to prove that since a stable method of computing the calendar had 
been agreed upon by both the Babylonians and the Palestinians, there had 
never been any difference between the two parties, except in that year, 
AM 4682. 60 

[788] In order to understand the historical development of the 
prerogative of fixing the calendar, it is important to study the document 


still not known then. See the versions of Sahl b. Masliah and Elias of Nisibis also in 
Bornstein, SokolowJubilee Volume, 21; idem, Hatequfa, 16(1921/2), 237. 

60 See the first letter of the Palestinian Gaon in Bornstein, Sokolow Jubilee Volume, 64, 
according to a Cambridge manuscript (see Shaked, 3*); see ENA 2556, f. 2, edited by 
Adler, REJ, 67(1914), 44f, which contains a more reliable version, which includes in the 
opening the words av-bet-din (of the Palestinian yeshiva), who is Isaac; cf. Bornstein, 
Hatequfa , 16(1921/2), 264f; the word palhedrin which Bornstein had difficulties with, is 
found in the Palestinian Talmud, see in the dictionaries (see also parhedriti); the other letter 
of the Palestinian Gaon: Bornstein, Sokolow Jubilee Volume, 104; Guillaume, JQR, NS, 5 
(1914/5), 552. The slander and ugly words about Meir Gaon and his son: in the remnants 
of the Sefer ha~md‘adim of Saadia Gaon, Bornstein, ibid. , 78, and the additional fragment, of 
an anonymous Babylonian, ibid., 101. The expressions used by the parties in the quarrel 
are very sharp; but obviously their slander is not to be taken seriously. Bornstein especially 
expressed his view of the nature of the dispute in the aforementioned article in Hatequfa in 
its two parts; see the view of Cassuto, Saadya Memorial Volume, 333ff, based on fragments 
from the midrash Sekhel Tov. 


566 



CALENDRICAL MATTERS [SECS. 784-789] 


from the Geniza found by Mann, and edited almost simultaneously by 
him and by Bornstein. It is theexilarch’s letter from the year 1147 Sel., that 
is, AM 4595, or AD 835. In this document, the exilarch attributes the 
prerogative of the calendar to the rdsh ha-havura and people of the havura 
(‘we rely on them forever, so that Israel shall not be divided into sections; I 
and the heads of the yeshivot and the scholars and all of Israel rely on the 
proclaiming of the leap year as decided by the haveritn). It is clear that he is 
speaking of the Palestinian yeshiva. On the other hand, one of the Babylo¬ 
nians writes at the time of the dispute on the calendar, that at first they 
indeed relied on Palestine, ‘but many years ago some scholars went from 
Babylonia to Palestine and learned the secret of the intercalation from the 
sages of Palestine ... and for many years now, the Babylonians decide on 
the order of the months themselves ... and behold in the Babylonian 
yeshivot there are many elders who have reached the age of eighty ... and 
none of them remember that the Babylonians ever needed to ask . .. 
Palestine’, and so on. 

On the basis of this, Mann has shown that a development took place 
between two chronological extremes: the year 835, in which the exilarch’s 
letter speaking of complete obedience to the Palestinian yeshiva was 
written, and the year 921, some eighty-five years later, when the rift over 
the calendar broke out. As stated in the exilarch’s letter, the study and 
inquiry on the part of the Babylonians into the matter of the calendar, 
which eventually led to their independence of Palestine, happened long 
before the dispute, for even men in their eighties no longer remembered 
that they ever had to resort to the computation of the Palestinians; hence 
one may assume that this change occurred shortly after 835. 61 

[789] Without going into the very core of the dispute, as I have said, we 
may assume that the Palestinian Gaon acted with sincerity, according to 
his own computations, and also with the strong desire to guard the 
hallowed prerogative of the Palestinian yeshiva to determine the calen- 
drical order and to proclaim it in public on the Mount of Olives to all the 
communities in Palestine and the diaspora. At the same time, one should 
note some other facts which are hinted at, rather than stated explicitly, in 
the sources at our disposal. The Palestinian Gaon’s major claim was that 
the leap year could not be decided on abroad, and he based this on a specific 
Talmudic law. True, in the continuation, he presented in detail the rele¬ 
vant arguments, and chiefly the matter of the 642 parts ( halaqim) that 

61 The exilarch’s letter: TS 8 G7, f. 1, in Mann, Jews, II, 41 f, see the discussion ibid., I, 53; cf. 
Bornstein, Hatequfa, 14-15(1921/2), 349ff. See the version of the Babylonians: Bornstein, 
Sokolow Jubilee Volume, 88f; Guillaume, JQR, NS 5(1914/5), 547. Bornstein describes 
what happened as if this were a meeting, a sort of convention of Babylonians and 
Palestinians. Mann assumed that the exilarch who wrote the letter was David b. Judah, 
whose dispute with his rival Daniel, is mentioned by Sherira Gaon in his letter. I have 


567 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


constituted the difference between his calculations and those of the Baby¬ 
lonians. However, in principle, the dispute became a distinct struggle over 
the hegemony of the communities, and this is further verified by the fact 
that the Babylonians were even considering applying to the authorities 
and requesting their intervention, but ultimately did not dare to do so 
(‘they did not make up their minds to obtain letters from the king to have 
him removed’). They also ascribed to the Palestine Gaon hidden intentions 
which we can hardly understand today. They understood, they write, 
‘why and wherefore he acted as he did’. They also emphasise that what 
was done stemmed from malicious intentions (‘he behaved maliciously’), 
and from foolish erring partisanship. On the other hand, we hear the not 
very relevant comments of the Palestinian Gaon; according to him the 
Babylonians claimed ‘you became a joke ... among the minim’ (the 
sectarians). Using a sort of oath, the Palestinian Gaon calls on God ‘to take 
revenge on whoever wants the help of the enemies’. This posture of 
self-defence is also evident in what he says in the continuation, about the 
many calamities endured by the family of the geonim in Palestine (it 
emerges), on ‘R. Musa [Moses] who was killed in the 'azara [the syn¬ 
agogue?] at the hand of‘Anan’s progeny’; on his forefathers ‘R. Meir and 
R. Moses, whom the enemies tried to kill a number of times’; and he 
himself, the writer, who suffered ‘many terrible troubles and imprison¬ 
ment and the torture of manacles and beating to the point of agony ... at 
the hands of the hateful sons of ‘Anan’. In conclusion, there are again 
comments that seem to be made in his own defence, their meaning termed 
in a rather curious Hebrew: ‘we did not rely on those enemies you 
mention; we only trusted in God’. It is quite certain that those sons of 
‘Anan, the enemies, are the nesT’Tm of the family of‘Anan, who started to 
collaborate with the Karaites at that time, and the writer is defending 
himself against the accusation that he acted in accord with them. On this 
point, however, we are not obliged to believe him. It is possible that the 
Babylonians had information on the subject and that the accusations were 
not unfounded. We may assume that the Palestinian Gaon was interested 
in a compromise with the Karaites and would have wanted to celebrate 
Passover with them, specifically on Sunday. 

One should also bear in mind that there was a strong faction among the 
Babylonians who supported the Palestinians, as Sahl b. MaslTah bears out, 
and as we have already seen. This can also be seen in the first letter of the 
Palestinian Gaon, from the remarks he directs at the faction of Mevasser 
Gaon, the rival of Kohen Sedeq in Pumbcdita. Mevasser, however, did 
not live up to expectations and went over to the remainder of the Babylo- 

described this above (sec. 732) and we have seen the information of Dionysius of Tel 

Mahre that David enjoyed the support of the Palestinians (‘the Tiberians’). 


568 



CALENDRICAL MATTERS [SECS. 784-789] 


nians, as one can see from the second letter of the Palestinian Gaon. 
Nevertheless, this did not restore the unity of the yeshiva of Pumbedita, 
and Mevasser Gaon set up a separate yeshiva until his death, in Kislev Sel. 
1237 or 1234, that is, AD 925 or 922. Aaron b. ‘Amram, the outstanding 
representative of the Jewish financiers of Baghdad, remained loyal to the 
Palestinian stand to the very end, and the Gaon calls him in his letter 
‘Saviour of the generation, who would not be led to leave the laws of 
God’. These two points, the possible surreptitious connection with the 
Karaites and the obvious connection with the Baghdadi bankers, main¬ 
tained by the Palestinian yeshiva, cannot be ignored when considering the 
dispute over the calendar which caused a storm among the Jewish com¬ 
munities in the East and the West. 62 

Yeshiva and community 

[790] In all the sources at our disposal, there is no hint of rebellion 
against the central body, the yeshiva. We are aware that competition 
existed between the aforementioned central bodies, and during the period 
under discussion, much of the rivalry was apparently between the yeshiva 
of Pumbedita and that of Palestine. But we cannot find evidence of any 
community’s ambition to achieve independence, just as there is no sign of 
an attempt to establish another yeshiva; although there are obscure indi¬ 
cations that there were two yeshivot in Palestine at one time, this may have 
been caused by rivalry between personalities of the yeshiva and by no 
means derived from a desire for independence on the part of any 
community. 

The status of uncontested leadership was notably expressed in the 
character of the letters from the yeshiva. The opening phrases of a letter 
usually contained florid expressions and certain established courtesies, as if 
part of a ceremony. Opening eloquences with which a certain Eleazar 
ha-Dayyan graced his letters to the congregation in Fustat have been 
preserved in letters from the end of the tenth century or the beginning of 
the eleventh. One introductory section included in my collection is 
directed to: ‘all the communities of Israel in Palestine and in its fortresses, 
its towns and villages... which have remained in Palestine and to those in 
the land of Egypt calling themselves Palestinians’ and so on, and after- 

62 A leap year cannot be proclaimed abroad: see in Bornstein, Sokolow Jubilee Volume, 64. 
Calculations of the 642 parts: ibid., 65f, ‘The king’s letters’, ibid., 79; and see there also the 
matter of the hidden motives. Malice: ibid., 102f. Derision among the minim: ibid., 105; 
Guillaume, JQR, NS 5(1914/5), 552; the calamities which befell the Gaon’s family: 
Bornstein, ibid., 106f; Guillaume, ibid., 554f. The letters of the Palestinian Gaon: the first, 
Bornstein, ibid., 59f; the second: 104ff; Guillaume, ibid., 552ff. These matters were amply 
clarified by Mann, Tarbiz, 5(1932/3), 150-156. Mevasser: Sherira Gaon’s Letter (Lewin 
ed.), 120, and the version there. 


569 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

wards we find the people of the community addressed according to their 
rank: (1) their sages and learned (that is, scholars and judges), (2) cantors, 
(3) parnasim, (4) teachers, and (5) the rest of God’s people, great and small. 
We findjosiah Gaon writing to the ‘holy communities living under the 
canopy of Egypt (Fustat). Solomon b. Judah also lists people according to 
categories: the liaverim, the berunm (elect), the judges, the scribes, the 
treasurers (parnasim). People of the community would write in a similar 
vein, when writing to a community in another locality; firstly he-haver, 
after that the sages and scholars, that is, the learned in the law who 
participate in the law courts, the parnasim and trustees who are engaged in 
the welfare of the poor, and then the remainder of the population. Abra¬ 
ham b. David ibn Sughmar, however, writes to the Nagid of Qayrawan, 
on behalf of those ‘who pray in the great accomplished synagogue in 
Fustat and adhere forever to the Great Sanhedrin’. 

A letter from the yeshiva was not a trivial matter. It was anxiously 
anticipated and had considerable influence on the daily life of the com¬ 
munity. A typical note was that sent by Sahlan b. Abraham, leader of the 
Babylonians in Fustat, to Aaron the cantor ha-mumhe b. Ephraim, in 
which he informs him that a certain physician has arrived fromjerusalem, 
bearing letters from the Gaon to people in Fustat. He asks him to drop 
everything and go to the physician in order to deliver the letters to their 
addresses. 

Apart from the yeshiva’s official letters, generally written by the Gaon 
himself or by his son or scribe, but mostly bearing the signature of the 
Gaon, there were also letters of another nature, in general of a factional 
character or based on private hidden connections, calling for personal 
favours, between personalities of the yeshiva and leaders of the local 
community. A good example of this is a letter of Joseph ha-Kohen b. 
Solomon Gaon, writing in about 1050, to Ephraim b. Shemaria, summing 
up the events in the yeshiva. It is evident that this was one of a series of 
letters and that they were written secretly. Such unofficial letters were 
sometimes written by the communities as well. For instance, there are two 
anonymous letters, evidently from Aleppo, containing endless grievances 
and intrigues. The writer complains that the Gaon only pays attention to 
those who slander him but takes no notice of him. He describes his own 
devotion, whether by day or night, to the needs of the community, for 
which he receives no payment. He has now moved to a new location, and 
is about to go to Kalne (Raqqa) in order to pacify people quarrelling over 
the appointment of a new dayyan. 63 

63 The remarks of Hirschberg ( History , 324f), that there were yeshivot in North Africa 

headed byjacob b. Nissim, a yeshiva in Qayrawan, or the yeshiva of R. Hushi’el (p. 322), 

lack any foundation. It would not have occurred to anyone to set up another yeshiva apart 


570 



YESHIVA AND COMMUNITY [SECS. 790-794] 


[791] To what extent the communal office-holder, even in a large 
community such as Fustat, was dependent on the Gaon’s decisions, one 
can see by Daniel b. Azariah’s resolute and unambivalent statement to his 
friend and chief supporter, Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn Furat, that the 
local dayyan, ‘Eli he-haver ha-me‘ulle b. ‘Amram, would be Abraham’s 
subordinate, and might not take on the responsibility for any communal 
matter unless ordered to do so by Abraham. It is very likely, however, that 
much depended on the Gaon’s personal style and the awe in which he was 
held by the public. In this respect, it seems that the Gaon who succeeded 
Daniel, Elijah ha-Kohen, differed from him, for we find that the emissary 
who carried his letters to the Damascus region, among them a long sheet 
of parchment which was evidently meant to be read to the public, did not 
deliver them to their addressees, but instead, as Abiathar, the son of the 
Gaon writes, kept them for one to three years. 64 

[792] As we have seen, making public appointments was the 
prerogative of the Gaon, and we encounter a number of actual instances of 
this. The local leader was the man in charge on behalf of the yeshiva. In 
Arabic, he was called the muqaddam, meaning, the appointee. Actually, in 
the documents of the period under discussion, this term does not have a 
fixed and established definition, as we find in Christian Spain. A man who 
is a haver and dayyan could also be called simply muqaddam, when Arabic 
was being written or spoken, just as in a Hebrew letter, he would be called 

from the three ancient yeshivot. Similarly, the comments of Cohen, Self-Government , 84, 
are rather strange; after he himself elaborated in detail on the political and military causes 
leading to the decline of security in Palestine, which forced the yeshiva to leave Jerusalem, 
he still claims that the formation of the office of the Nagid in Egypt was the result of an 
internal (his emphasis) process within the Jewish population in Egypt. The fact is that this 
community never attempted to free themselves of the authority of any central body, 
although there were Jews who transferred their loyalty from the Palestinian Gaon to the 
Babylonian, or to the exilarch. The Nagid himself, as we shall see below, was appointed 
by the Palestinian Gaon. And finally, that same yeshiva Ge’dn Ya'aqov, which wandered 
from Tyre and Damascus to Egypt, again occupied a central role in the leadership of the 
Jews in Egypt in the first half of the twelfth century, during Masllah Gaon’s day. The 
eloquence of Eleazar the dayyan: TS10J 24, f. 9; see the opening fragment, 571; seeBM Or 
5544, f. 1, b; and also BM Or 5542, f. 1. Josiah: 40. Solomon b. Judah; 71. See the letter 
from Tyre to Aleppo: 273. To the Nagid: 191, line 6. Sahlan: 340. Joseph ha-Kohen: 409. 
The unknown man from Aleppo: 286, 287. On the subject of Raqqa, see: Mann, Jews, I, 
245, n. 1, who quotes Benjamin of Tudela (Adler ed., 33); cf. Le Strange, Lands, 101 f; 
Ashtor, Toledot, II, 391, finds in 286 proof that many ofthehaverimanddayyanlm did not 
work for payment; the dayyan about to be appointed in Raqqa was a man from La- 
dhiqiyya, and he may be ‘Eli the cantor b, Joshua al-Ladhiql, who was ‘permanently’ 
(i qavu'a ) in Raqqa, see: 198. 

64 Daniel b. Azariah, see 354, margin. The matter of Elijah Gaon’s letters: 547; the matter of 
dispatching letters was at times a difficult and complex problem; at the beginning of the 
eleventh century, the yeshiva (then in Tyre) sent its letters to Egypt via Ascalon, and in the 
opposite direction as well, probably because of the absence of direct sea links between 
T yre and Egypt, while the overland connection was naturally cut off due to the Crusaders’ 
domination of the country. 


57i 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


ha-memunne (the appointee), as indeed Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon called 
Ephraim b. Shemaria in 1025, in a letter couched in flowery terms, saying 
that he ‘was the memunne to judge in matters of inheritance and testaments, 
and supporting those in need because of their poverty and humiliation’. It 
is clear that in a small locality, where there was no learned scholar worthy 
of being a judge, the yeshiva would appoint someone to be responsible for 
public affairs, and he was the memunne, that is, al-muqaddam. Such a person 
would consider himself as having been appointed by the nation. The 
caliph’s order which tried to rectify the relationship between the Rabba- 
nites and the Karaites also speaks (in 1034) of muqaddamTal-rabbaniyTn that 
is, the appointees of the Rabbanites, meaning people of the calibre of 
Joseph and Elijah ha-Kohen, the sons of Solomon Gaon. At about the 
same time, a letter from Fustat written by Ghalib ha-Kohen b. Moses, the 
son-in-law of Ephraim b. Shemaria, describes how a certain Abraham 
(perhaps b. David ibn Sughmar) defends himself in the face of accusations 
that he slandered those appointed over the Jews (muqaddamT al-umma). The 
Gaon himself (evidently Solomon b. Judah) was described in the caliph’s 
order which defined his prerogatives, as being the person ‘appointed over 
all the Jews’. In 1025 Yefet b. David was declared ‘appointee over the 
community’ in matters of ritual slaughtering - muqaddam lil-jama‘a. A 
supporter of Nathan b. Abraham, writing in 1042 to Solomon b. Judah, 
styles himself as a public servant, ‘appointed by the nation’ (the umma). 65 

[793] There is no doubt that the appointment of the local haver was a 
step of enormous significance and portentious influence within the local 
community. The haver appointed by the Gaon was due to be the focal 
point for all aspects of communal life for many years. Ephraim b. Shema¬ 
ria, leader of the Fustat community, was a typical example. We find details 
relating to his appointment and status in a draft of the record of a meeting 
of the ‘Palestinian’ elders of the city, written on 7July 1028, in which they 
express their trust in Ephraim and promise him their backing. One also 
learns from that document that he was first appointed by Shemaiah Gaon, 

65 There are no grounds for the view of Cohen, Self-Government, 119, that muqaddam is a title 
that replaced the title haver which was held by the local leaders of the communities, just as 
it is also incorrect that it was first used during David b. Daniel’s time, that is, at the end of 
the eleventh century, as one can see by the Hebrew Index. Solomon ha-Kohen’s letter: 49, 
lines 7-8. See the caliph’s order, 310, line 23. The letter from Fustat: 177, line 14. Another 
of the caliph’s orders, 311, lines 11-12. Yefet: 319, line 8. The supporter of Nathan: 198, 
lines 15-16. See other views of the muqaddam: Ashtor, Zion, 30 (1964/5), 138-141 (‘super¬ 
visor of public affairs, especially the religious services’); the opinion of Goitein, Mediter¬ 
ranean Society, II, 68—75, is similar to that stated here, but he would emphasise the 
characteristics and specific duties attached to the bearers of this name, while as far as I 
understand it, this was merely a neutral term, like ‘head’ or ‘leader’. One can see that they 
did not have permanent names for local leaders in localities with small communities where 
there was no local haver. We encounter the title 'trustee of the grand court’ in a letter from 
the middle of the eleventh century written by Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon to an 


572 



YESHIVA AND COMMUNITY [SECS. 790-794] 


apparently at the beginning of the century, as bet-din, that is, not as yet a 
haver. Josiah Gaon, at the outset of1025, appointed him haver, and he was 
appointed again by his successor Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph and his 
av-bet-din Zadok ha-Levi b. Levi (1025). These things were written in the 
days of Solomon b. Judah, and we know that he vigilantly guarded 
Ephraim’s status. He also strongly objected to the appointment of another 
haver in Fustat, as proposed by the av-bet-din (undoubtedly Zadok ha-Levi 
b. Levi); and we are also aware of the fact that Solomon b. Judah’s constant 
and uncompromising support of Ephraim b. Shemaria aroused consider¬ 
able resentment among the latter’s rivals in Fustat, for he wrote to 
Ephraim b. Shemaria about it himself. ‘Most of the community’ in Fustat 
were about to complain to the authorities about the Gaon for having 
granted the rights of leadership and judge to Ephraim ( hirsha , that is, 
‘granted the rashut’ , the authority). There were also those who claimed 
that his motives in supporting Ephraim were materialistic, because of 
‘gifts and largesse’. 

The appointments of haverim were generally made in Tishri, during the 
congregation of pilgrims in Jerusalem, in order to accord them a festive 
and public character. Abraham, son of the Gaon, mentions in a letter the 
proclamation of haverim on Rosh ha-shana. A certain Damascene named 
Yahya was appointed the ‘seventh’, and other appointments were also 
announced there on the sabbath after Rosh ha-shana. 

In addition to the titles of real content, such as haver, dayyan, mumhe, 
which as we can assume had a direct connection with the local courts of 
law, the yeshiva also had in store some honorary names which it would 
confer on those whom they considered worthy of the honour, unrelated to 
the person’s knowledge of the law or his scholarship with regard to the 
Torah. Thus, for instance, Solomon b. Judah calls the Fustat parnas 
Abraham b. Mevasser ‘segiil (the distinguished) of the community of 
Zoan’ (Fustat). This was not a casual or unique instance of applying this 
name, but rather a title bestowed officially, evidently in a letter from the 
Gaon, or from the av-bet-din, read aloud in the synagogue in Fustat. It was 
precisely on this matter that Solomon b. Nethanel, the moneychanger of 
Fustat, wrote to the av-bet-din Zadok ha-Levi b. Levi. The additional 
by-name given to Abraham b. Mevasser by the av-bet-din, he writes, made 
quite an impression in Fustat, and made both congregations happy (that is, 
the ‘Babylonians’ as well), for Abraham and his brother (Jacob b. Me¬ 
vasser, who was also a parnas in Fustat) were known and famous for their 
God-fearing piety. 

The yeshiva frequently displayed personal and devoted interest in those 

unknown community; he did not even remember the name of that ‘trustee’, but only that 

of his father - Sheraia, whom he calls ‘the elder of our generation’, see 419. 


573 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

who supported it abroad and to whom it had granted honourable titles; 
this is evident in a number of letters written by the yeshiva to various 
personalities, particularly in Fustat. Just as we encountered Solomon b. 
Judah stoutly supporting Ephraim b. Shemaria, we find Daniel b. Azariah 
backing ‘Eli b. ‘Amram, Ephraim’s successor, despite the rancour which 
at first existed between them. Daniel b. Azariah writes to him, evidently in 
the early stages of his role as Gaon, that he intends to patiently await the 
time when opposition to him will subside. He expects the support of ‘Eli 
b. ‘Amram, he-haver ha-me'ulle, and even promises him payment in very 
picturesque terms: ‘your efforts shall not be in vain ... we have not 
forgotten nor shall we forget, we have not abandoned nor shall we 
abandon, Heaven forbid; but will pay with the help of God, if He grants us 
life, in exchange for every perutci, a sheqel, and in exchange for a sheqel, 
several manim’. As ‘Eli evidently expressed in his letters some fear lest he 
lose the affection of the public, the Gaon promises him to support him by 
his letters, ‘and whoever dares to be impertinent, shall be the target of 
sharp arrows’. 66 

[794] Characteristic evidence of the manner of leadership of the local 

66 The draft of the record: 324 , lines 12-14; bet-din means here av-bet-din. See a somewhat 
different view of the document: Goitein, Shalem, 1(1973/4), 16 (= ha-Yishuv, 83f); the 
handwriting is that of Ephraim b. Shemaria, not of Yefet b. David. Similar in subject to 
this document is 325 ; it is a sort of agreement between the congregation and Ephraim b. 
Shemaria, certainly written at the same time; see on this below. Solomon b. Judah and the 
matter of the additional haver: 86; his letter to Abraham ha-Kohen is also related to this 
matter: 100 , which contains his gratitude for Abraham’s support for Ephraim b. Shema¬ 
ria. See on this matter: Mann, Jews, I, 129, who here mistakenly involves the nasi; these 
events took place between the yeshiva and the local community, with no other factor 
involved. The resentment in Fustat: 67 ; cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 405. The 
proclamation of haverim; 141 ; it seems that the title ‘the seventh’ was mainly a title of 
honour. The expression al-ljaverim a1-qevu { im (‘the permanent ones’) be-ashqeldn found in 
the copy of a marriage deed, 594 , a, line 9, is quite interesting. There were undoubtedly in 
Ascalon at the time (the beginning of 1100, the winter immediately following the conquest 
ofjerusalem by the Crusaders) also haverim who were not local people, but from among 
the refugees. * Segdl (sagul ) of the community of Zoan’: 139 . Between Abraham b. 
Mevasser and Zadok ha-Levi b. Levi there existed a special relationship, as is shown in 
Zadok’s letter to this Abraham, TS 8 J 3 (edited by Schechter, Saadyana , 147f); see what 
Abraham son of the Gaon writes him in 87 , lines 5-6: ‘our Master Abraham, the trustee, to 
whom the av of the yeshiva has conferred the title ‘segul of the community of Zoan’; that is, 
the title was apparently granted him by the av-bet-din. The letter of Solomon b. Nethanel: 
215 . This family of parnaslm stemmed from Fas and was very active in congregation 
affairs. Their father Mevasser (Bishr) was called al-Arjawani, that is, he traded in purple 
cloth. Abraham son of the Gaon asks for their help in the aforementioned letter in 
connection with his anticipated visit to Fustat: apart from the two brothers, Halfon b. 
Jacob b. Mevasser is also mentioned. See the Hebrew Index and cf. Gil, Documents, 143, n. 
28. See a further list of names and titles of the yeshivot, such as ‘the beloved of the yeshiva’, 
‘the choice of the yeshiva’, ‘the cherished pride of the yeshiva’, ‘thejoy of the yeshiva’, etc. 
in Mann, Jews, I, 278. At times, they would shorten the titles and call someone al-masos or 
al-hetndat, etc., instances which can be found in my Geniza collection. The letter of Daniel 
b. Azariah: 368 . 


574 



YESHIVA AND COMMUNITY [SECS. 790-794] 


community as it was accepted in those days can be found in a preserved 
fragment of the regulations ( takkandt ) laid down by the ‘community of 
Rabbanites living in Fustat’ during Ephraim b. Shemaria’s time, which 
form a sort of covenant set down between the forum of leaders and 
Ephraim b. Shemaria, as follows: (1) they take upon themselves the 
responsibility to see to all public matters, (2) they will observe the pre¬ 
cepts, (3) ten of them will sit with Ephraim b. Shemaria in court and help 
him to manage public affairs, (4) their special responsibility will be in 
fulfilling the requirements of the Gaon and the people of his yeshiva, the 
yeshiva ofjerusalem, (5) Ephraim b. Shemaria promises to consult them 
on all matters about which there is no definite law, and (6) together with 
him, they shall deal with the income from the ritual slaughtering. It seems 
that a section is missing in the continuation, in which decisions were 
evidently made with regard to the money of the heqdesh in Fustat. We 
know that this institution of the pious foundations was the chief economic 
basis for communal activities, which supplied the needs of the synagogue, 
cared for the sick and the poor, paid for public offices, hosted strangers 
who happened to arrive in the city, ransomed captives, and so on. 

One should also mention the direct contact existing between the com¬ 
munities in an emergency - contact which sometimes touched on people 
and matters at a great distance from one another, such as the letter of 
Samuel b. Moses of Tyre to Ephraim b. Shemaria, in which he asks him to 
proclaim in the synagogues the case of Na‘ima the daughter of Moses the 
cantor b. Husayn al-Duluki. This woman asks for the return of property 
(debts and deposits) which belonged to her son-in-law Moses b. Semah 
al-Azraq ( ha-qosem , astrologer) who died some years previously, and to 
her father Moses b. Husayn. The money should be sent with a certain b. 
‘Amram Ajlsi, of Amid (‘the A midi’ - Amid was the capital of the Diyar 
Bakr region of northern Mesopotamia) or with David ha-Levi b. Isaac. If 
the debtors should not come forward of their own accord, they would be 
excommunicated. 67 


Communal leaders in close contact with the yeshiva 

[795] Naturally, the list of people mentioned in letters of the yeshiva or 
in the documents in my collection is a very long one. Here I shall merely 

67 See the regulations of Fustat: 325; cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 58; the subject of 
the heqdesh is dealt with extensively in my book (Gil, Documents); see in my collection 229 
(the renting of a ruined building belonging to ‘the people of the great synagogue in the city 
of Ramla’), 592 (renting of a house of the heqdesh in Ascalon), 273 (a record of evidence 
from Tyre concerning the dedication of a house to the synagogue in Aleppo). The claim of 
Na'ima, see: 278; cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 545, n. 37, and see n. 297 above. 
Amid, see Le Strange, Lands, 108-111. 


575 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


tarry over the few most outstanding among them. In chronological order, 

I shall begin with Shemaria b. Elhanan. The information about him and 
his son Elhanan, available in the Geniza, has been the subject of extensive 
discussion by some of the most important scholars - Mann, Abramson 
and Goitein. The father, Shemaria b. Elhanan, was one of the four in the 
famous story of the four captives in Abraham ibn Da’ud’s Book of 
Tradition. He was in contact with the Pumbedita yeshiva and possibly 
stayed there for some time. There is no doubt that he was the leader of the 
‘Babylonians’ in Fustat and the recipient of honorary titles from the 
Babylonian yeshiva, such as ‘the head rav’, ‘the head’ and ‘the great of the 
yeshiva’. He is mentioned a number of times in the Geniza documents in 
my collection. In around 1010, Samuel ‘the third’ b. Hosha‘na ofjerusa- 
lem writes to him fromjerusalem, recommending Nathan b. Abraham b. 
Saul, who was to become av-bet-din of the yeshiva and Solomon b. Judah’s 
rival. Nathan is travelling to the Maghrib on matters relating to an 
inheritance from his father and Shemaria is asked to look after him and 
help him during his stay in Egypt. The opening phrases of the letter are 
very florid and praise the addressee and his father Elhanan (‘the great rav 
who was a light and crown to his generation’). Although it seems that 
Elhanan was indeed one of the most important figures in Babylonia, 
perhaps in the Pumbedita yeshiva, Samuel refrains from using his Babylo¬ 
nian titles. Samuel evidently maintained a close friendship with Shemaria, 
for he afterwards came to Egypt especially to participate in his funeral. 
The visit of Samuel ‘the third’ to Egypt is mentioned, as we have seen, in a 
fragment of an anonymous letter and also in the ‘Egyptian Scroll’. The 
death of his father, Shemaria, is mentioned by Elhanan in his letter to the 
community in Jerusalem, in which he notes that he himself was in Da¬ 
mascus at the time. Shemaria b. Elhanan is apparently also mentioned in 
a court record of Josiah Gaon’s day, which includes a copy of a deed of 
partnership evidently drawn up before Shemaria b. Elhanan in his court in 
Fustat. To this data on the links established between Shemaria b. Elhanan 
and the Palestinian yeshiva, we can add the explicit evidence ofHayy Gaon, 
who writes that he sent Shemaria responsa to a number of queries put him 
by Bahlul b. Joseph, in two quires. He received confirmation of the receipt 
(from Shemaria) of only one of these quires and not of the other, for ‘after 
they were sent, his letters ceased, for he had joined the havura [the yeshiva] 
of Palestine’. 68 

68 See Mann, Jews, I, 34-39, llOf; ibid., II, 38-41 (where he edited Elhanan’s letters and 
quotations from his letters); idem. Texts, I, 199-201; Abramson, Ba-merkazim, 105-182; 
Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 28f; see his articles: Tarbiz, 32: 266, 1962/3; FinkelJubilee 
Volume: 117. My own student, Dr E. Bareket, wrote a study towards her M.A. degree 
entitled, ‘Elhanan b. Shemaria and Sahlan b. Abraham’, Tel Aviv Univ. 1979/80. See also 
her article on Sahlan b. Abraham: Tarbiz, 52: 17, 1982/3. The letter of Samuel ‘the third’: 


576 



COMMUNAL LEADERS IN CONTACT WITH THE YESHIVA [SECS. 795-808] 

[796] Elhanan b. Shemaria bore the title rosh ha-seder, which it seems was 
customarily granted by the exilarch in that day. At times, father and son 
even called themselves ha-rosh, ‘the head’, or al-rayyis (probably an ab¬ 
breviation of rosh ha-seder) and apparently, most of the honour attached to 
this title came from the fact that they were the heads of the ‘Babylonian’ 
congregation in Fustat. On one occasion, Elhanan even signed Elhanan bet 
dm birrabbi Shemaria. We know that bet-din stood for av-bet-din, and from 
this we understand that he headed the ‘Babylonian’ court in Fustat. 
Among the ‘Babylonians’, it was usual for the local dayyan to call himself 
thus, as one can see from the Babylonian custom in Ramla, when Joseph 
ibn al-SijilmassI, is called in their particular parlance, abbedin, or al-bidin. 
We have clear evidence of the fact that Elhanan was the dayyan of the 
‘Babylonians’ in Fustat from a deed of trusteeship drawn up in the court of 
the ‘Palestinians’ there, during the stay of Abraham, the son of the Gaon, 
who wrote the deed himself. It emerges that to this court, a court record 
was presented written at ‘the council of our Lord and Master Elhanan rosh 
ha-seder, of blessed memory’ (that is, the debate in the ‘Palestinian’ court 
occurred after Elhanan’s demise). It is obvious that ‘the council’ here 
means court, as has also been acknowledged by Assaf. It seems that the 
purpose of Elhanan’s letter to the community in Jerusalem, mentioned 
above, was connected to some legal matter, but unfortunately the latter 
part of the letter, which undoubtedly dealt with the principal subject, has 
been lost. The idea that Shemaria the father and Elhanan his son estab¬ 
lished a sort of yeshiva in Fustat, which even enjoyed the authorities’ 
support, and that its establishment was linked with the Fatimids’ control 
over Egypt, is rather fanciful. This exaggeration is, to a certain extent, 
based on the impressive titles that the Babylonians were inclined to use. 
This is not to say that Shemaria and his son Elhanan were not learned men; 
they had indeed achieved the highest status among the ‘Babylonian’ 
community of Fustat and were at the very heart of Torah study there, 

18, The death of Shemaria: 19 (he is called Shemaria the Rav there). Elhanan’s letter: 26. 
The deed: 30; contrary to Mann’s opinion, the record was not written in Shemaria’s court 
but this is a copy made by Tobiah b. Daniel, one of the central figures of the Jerusalem 
yeshiva; one should note that Shemaria’s name has not been preserved in the document, 
which is torn and faded, but it seems that the reconstruction is correct: Shemaria ha-rav 
birrabbi Elhanan ha-rav, to the documentation on Shemaria b. Elhanan one must now also 
add TS AS 200.347, 349, two fragments, the first of which mentions his commentary to 
the Song of Solomon, see: Abramson, ibid., 82, 163. The letter of Hayy Gaon, see the 
fragment TS 20.100, in Mann, Texts, I, 120; see his discussion there, 109f; idem, Tarbiz, 
5(1933/4), 295fn. 181; Abramson, Ba-merkazim, 97; both Mann and Abramson ascribed 
these remarks to Bahlul, that is, that he left the authority of Pumbedita and went over to 
the Palestine authority. The fact that this is not so is proven both from the rest of the 
information on the connections between Shemaria and Elhanan his son, with the Pal¬ 
estinian yeshiva, and from the letter of Hayy Gaon himself, for in the continuation he is 
amazed that Bahlul discontinued his connection with Pumbedita; and if the statement 


577 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

from which stems the information that a midrash, or a house of learning, 
was founded by them in Fustat. We have no actual information, however, 
about this midrash - whether it was an independent institution existing in 
a special building of its own or whether it was merely another nickname 
for the court of the ‘Babylonians’, which was located, we assume, in their 
synagogue. 69 

[797] The letter of the exilarch Hezekiah b. David to Judah ‘alu/of the 
yeshiva of the diaspora’ b. Abraham, written in February 1021, has 
aroused considerable interest. We are not certain as to the identity ofjudah 
b. Abraham, but it seems likely that he was one of the supporters of the 
Pumbedita yeshiva in Fustat, perhaps one of the Maghribis who settled in 
Egypt. The exilarch mentions a letter sent by Elhanan rosh ha-seder, that is 
Elhanan b. Shemaria, to the yeshiva, in which he says that he asked the 
Jerusalem Gaon (then Josiah b. Aaron) ‘not to take any new decision 
before appointing him au (bet-din)’. Hezekiah strongly objects to this. He 
mentions (not very positively) Elhanan’s many activities in Syria (Sova, 
that is Aleppo, and Damascus), Fustat (Zoan), and Palestine (‘the land of 
Canaan’), and his characteristic pursuit of power, and the fact that he 
maintained a court ( qava‘ pereq) in Fustat, at the request of Barhun, 
evidently referring to Abraham b. Sahlan. Here Hezekiah swears and 
claims that people in those places (that is, people of the Palestinian yeshiva) 
are not worthy of establishing a ‘Babylonian’ court, for they were not 
aware of what a yeshiva must do in these matters. All their wisdom is in 
the writing of deeds ( ha-shimmiish ). When Elhanan was visiting Baghdad, 
he met with Asaf rosh ha-seder, and Elhanan, for some days, displayed to 
him his knowledge of the Talmud, but this was very superficial. To sum 
up, this letter was apparently intended to arouse the opposition of‘Baby¬ 
lonians’ in Fustat to Elhanan’s being called av-bet-dln. Relating to the 
appointment of Elhanan as av-bet-dln of the ‘Babylonians’ in Fustat are his 
own comments in a letter, a fragment of which has been preserved in the 

above were referring to him, there would be no justification for this amazement. 
(Hirschberg, Eretz-Israel , 5[1958/9], 214f follows Mann in this respect.) 

69 Elhanan bet dm: Bodl MS Heb a 2, f. 15, edited by Assaf, Tarbiz, 9(1937/8), 217f. Joseph 
ibn al-Sijilmassi: 313, lines 4, 16, 22. The title rosh ha-seder, apart from all the places 
mentioned in the works pointed out in the previous note, also: TS AS 148.156, a small 
fragment of a letter to ‘rosh ha-seder of all Israel’; and the same also on the verso, in the 
address. ‘The council’ of Elhanan: 61, lines 4—5; cf. Assaf, Meqorot , 44. The letter to the 
Jerusalemites: 26. Exaggeration concerning Elhanan’s status is also felt in Goitein, Mediter¬ 
ranean Society , II, 202; there he bases his remarks on 141, but Elhanan is not spoken of 
there, see the notes to this document. A certain lack of clarity can be seen in Abramson, 
Ba-tnerkazitn, 111, n. 40, where it emerges from his remarks that the Palestinian yeshiva 
also granted the title altif or rosh kalld, which he bases on Mann, Jews, II, 45, 159; as to the 
first place, he evidently erred as to the page number; in the other one, we find Solomon b. 
Judah’s letter to Sahlan b. Abraham, 136; although the Gaon calls him aluf, Sahlan received 
this title from the Babylonian yeshiva, as leader of the ‘Babylonian’ congregation in 


578 



COMMUNAL LEADERS IN CONTACT WITH THE YESHIVA [SECS. 795-808] 

Geniza: ‘and in this week Hasan b. Sa‘dan b. Asbagh met with the caliph 
[‘the commander of the faithful’], may God guard his peace, who said to 
him: Ibn ‘Imran has brought a legal decision from Palestine in my matter 
[i.e. of Elhanan], in which it is said that they unanimously approved that 
all judgments and legal decisions be the prerogative of Yahya (Elhanan) b. 
Shemaria and of no one else’. From this we can assume that in fact the 
Gaon and the entire yeshiva eventually agreed and confirmed that Elhanan 
should be appointed av-bet-dln.™ 

[798] One should mention here that Elhanan’s father Shemaria called 
himself ‘av-bet-dln of all Israel’ in a court record dealing with a quarrel 
between Maghribi merchants, and also in a fragment of his letter which 

Fustat. Similarly, there are no grounds for referring to the ‘yeshiva of Fustat’, as Abram¬ 
son does in the above-mentioned article. 

70 Hezekiah’s letter: 27; the complaint that their wisdom consists only in writing deeds 
resembles the claim of al-Jahiz, Hayawdn, I, 78 (ed. Haroun 2 ), written 200 years earlier: 
‘there are those who study the sources and occupy themselves with commentaries of the 
Koran for fifty years and are still not considered learned in the law (faqih) and this still does 
not make them cadis; but a man who has looked through the books of Abu Hanlfa or 
others like him, and learned by heart the formularies of deeds ( shurut) for a year or two, 
suddenly becomes like one of the governors, and it will not be long before he is a judge in 
one of the cities’; cf. Goldziher, Muhammedanisdie Studien, II, 233; cf. a similar reproach 
from Saadia Gaon in his Sefer ha-gdluy against Aaron (Khalaf) ha-Kohen b, Joseph ibn 
Sarjada that he was not a scholar and that all his wisdom lay in the writing of deeds, like the 
watraq of the Muslims; whereas among them (the Muslims), such a man would not merit 
any status in the world of the law and judgment; see in Stern, Media, 5(1954/5), 141—147. 
Cf. Gil, Sejimot, NS, 1(1977/8), 13. Hezekiah’s letter was meticulously studied and 
commented upon, see the references in the introductory note to 27. Mann (Texts, I, 135f) 
edited TS 10J 27, f. 10, a letter dated 19 Shevat, 1329 Sel., 7 February AD 1018, fromHayy 
Gaon to a rosh ha-seder in which he also mentions an exchange of letters between that rosh 
ha-seder and the exilarch (that is, Hezekiah). Mann assumes (ibid., 117) that the letter was 
written to Elfianan. It was indeed written to Elhanan, since the address, in Arabic script, 
reads: Abu Zakariyya’ Ibn Shemaria, who was none other than Elhanan. The fragment in 
the handwriting of Elhanan: TS 8 J 7, f. 13. One can think that ‘ alayhi al-salam, ‘peace be 
with him’, is used in the same sense as it is used in Hebrew, i.e. about someone deceased, 
and then it sounds like the story of a dream in which the caliph appears to be dead; but this 
expression is not found in this sense in the Geniza letters from the period under discussion 
here; whereas in Arabic, this is not its only meaning, especially here, when speaking of the 
caliph. In 1896, Goldziher already showed, that contrary to the Sunnis, the Shiites used 
this blessing when mentioning the descendants of the house of ‘All in the widest sense, 
either towards the dead or the living, and such was the custom mainly among the 
Fatimids. Naturally the reference then is not to a dream but to an actual confirmation, both 
of the Jewish leadership and of the authorities, of the appointment of Elhanan b. Shemaria 
as av-bet-dln. See: Goldziher, ZDMG, 50(1896), 121, 124; on the matter of the status of 
Shemaria b. Elhanan and his son Elhanan: the improved version of 38 (Gil, Te'uda, 
7[1991], 31 Iff) somewhat clarifies the matter of their claim to the title av-bet-dln. It appears 
from this letter that Joseph ha-Kohen b. Menahem promised and even granted Shemaria 
b. Elhanan the title av-bet-dln me'uttad in the Palestinian yeshiva, near 990, during the rift 
with Samuel ha-Kohen Gaon b. Joseph, when Joseph probably declared himself Gaon. 
Shemaria saw himself as bearing the title justifiably on behalf of the Palestinian yeshiva. 
And, although we do not have sufficient data, we may assume that his son Elhanan also 
claimed this title for himself, after having been ‘the candidate for third’. Ben-Sasson, Zion, 
51(1986), 405ff, first published the improved version of 38; see ibid, his discussion on this 
subject. 


579 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


has been preserved, while Elhanan was called in that court record ‘Elhanan 
the sixth the candidate for the third’, from which we can assume that the 
two acted in accord and in connection with the Palestinian yeshiva. 
Otherwise there is no explanation for that title. This also supports the 
opinion that the title av-het-dtn, which Elhanan devised for himself, was 
intended to be like that of his father. We have seen that both the father and 
the son used this title when sitting in court, and also in their court records. 
At any rate, we have a possible answer (though not a certain one) as to why 
the exilarch Hezekiah was so embittered against Elhanan and spoke of him 
as if he were not a serious scholar; for evidently his initial connections were 
with the exilarch, from whom he had received the title rosh ha-seder, and 
now he was establishing links with the Jerusalem Gaon. 71 

[799] At the same time, there seems to have been some activity among 
the Babylonians in Palestine. They wanted to set up, in addition to a 
separate legal system and independent courts, local appointments on their 
own. It is possible that Elhanan b. Shemaria was behind this activity. We 
have the evidence of Yefet b. David b. Shekhania on this matter, in a letter 
to his father David, from Tyre in ca. 1010. He explicitly writes that he 
found the people of Acre, which he visited, accepting of the judgment of 
‘the head R. Elhanan’ and in the continuation, hints that he refrained from 
getting into an argument with him; that is, that although he witnessed 
Elhanan trespassing on the territory of the Palestinian Gaon, to whom 
Yefet owed his loyalty, he did not take issue with him and even prevented 
others from doing so. We have seen that at that time, Elhanan also stayed 
in Damascus for some time, and it seems that the purpose of thesejourneys 
was to be active among the ‘Babylonians’ in Syria and Palestine and 
perhaps also to win over people from among the followers of the Palestine 
Gaon. There is also evidence of the nature of Elhanan’s activities in 
northern Palestine in the validation, written in his own handwriting, on a 
deed of compensation drawn up in the court in Tyre, on 24 November 

71 See the court record: TS Loan 18, edited by Assaf, Teshuvot (1941/2), 115f; cf. Mann, 
Texts, I, 200; Goitein, Finkel Jubilee Volume, 118f; Goitein already understood the practical 
significance of the links with the Jerusalem yeshiva; contrary to his opinion ibid., 120 (and 
also Mann’s, Jett's, II, 40, 41), the letters which end with the ‘alama: bent tdm, are Sahlan b. 
Abraham’s, and not Elhanan’s; see the fragment of the letter with the signature ‘Shemaria 
av-bet-dm of all Israel’, in Goitein, Tarbiz, 32(1962/3), 271; Abramson, Ba-merkazim, 170f; 
see ibid. , 111, his assumption that the selection of the av-bet-din of the Palestinian yeshiva is 
being referred to and that Elhanan then acted in Aleppo or Damascus; hence Abramson 
also surmised that it was not possible that Barhun, mentioned in 27, is Abraham b. Sahlan. 
The connection between Elhanan’s court records and the Palestinian yeshiva also emerges 
from 28, a, margin; this is a letter from Fustat to Josiah Gaon, describing the incident of the 
mistreatment of the brothers of Daniel b. Sahl the teacher, and ‘our Lord and Master 
Elhanan rosh ha-seder ’ is mentioned there; because of the poor state of the letter, it is 
impossible to understand exactly what is being spoken of, but it seems that Elhanan tried 
to intervene in that incident, with little success. 


580 



COMMUNAL LEADERS IN CONTACT WITH THE YESHIVA [SECS. 795-808] 

1019. The deed itself is in the handwriting of the local haver, Joseph 
ha-Kohen b. Jacob; in his signature Elhanan calls himself Josh ha-seder of 
all Israel’. 

The subject of the letter fromjoshua ha-Kohen b. Ya’ir of Tiberias to a 
community in the North (he mentions Palestine and Syria, but not Egypt) 
- perhaps Tyre, Tripoli, or Aleppo, is evidently related to those Babylo¬ 
nians’ activities as well. He informs them that he has the sole right to 
appoint public figures in the communities, and that he appoints Moses 
the cantor b. Khalaf in charge of the court records, as well as an ad¬ 
ditional sixteen people to sit with him in the court. These appointments, 
which apparently relate to the ‘Babylonians’, may have been made after 
Elhanan’s stay in these areas and indicate a sort of reorganisation of these 
‘Babylonian’ communities. One cannot imagine that Palestinian com¬ 
munities are being referred to, for in that case, it would be the Jerusalem 
Gaon who would have made the appointments. 72 

[800] Elhanan b. Shemaria is mentioned by name in a letter written by 
Solomon b. Judah to someone in Fustat, of which only a fragment has 
been preserved. Due to the poor state of the letter, it is impossible to draw 
any substantive information concerning Elhanan from it; after the men¬ 
tion of his name, a number of words are missing, and this is followed by 
the words ‘he knew the man and his ways’, and it is not clear whether 
Elhanan is the subject or perhaps the object. However it is characteristic 
that this is immediately followed by the mention of a letter from the head 
of the Babylonian yeshiva, ‘which arrived not without a purpose’; the 
Gaon expresses his bitterness about something, and here the text is very 
obscure. However, there is confirmation here that Elhanan belonged to 
the ‘Babylonian’ community. In another letter, written by Solomon b. 
Judah, perhaps after the death of Elhanan in 1026 apparently, it is recalled 
that he had reproached R. Elhanan, for his involvement in the severe rift 
between the ‘Palestinians’ and the ‘Babylonians’ in Fustat. Everyone 
supported the Gaon in this matter, he writes. 


72 Yefet b. David’s letter; 317, lines 9-11, 17, cf. Goitein, Finkel Jubilee Volume, 133f, who 
assumed that it referred to a fisaqa (Heb. pesiqa) with the meaning of vows and collection of 
money; but it seems that in the light of all the foregoing, it refers to a court decision, as in 
line 17 in the same letter, it also mentions Jisaqat, evidently meaning copies of legal 
decisions he asked to be sent to him in Fustat. The same letter also mentions (it seems) 
some commentary written by Elhanan. The deed drawn up in Tyre: 271. The letter of 
Joshua ha-Kohen: 25. He also wrote 24, in which he described the affair of the nasi who 
wanted to control all the communities in those regions. There is also the possibility — 
which is difficult to prove at this stage — that the man who pretended to be a nasi was none 
other than Elhanan, for according to the evidence of Yefet b. David, he indeed moved 
around the communities in that neighbourhood and called himself dayyan, as we have 
seen. 


5 8l 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


It seems that Elhanan pursued his activities in the course of his continu¬ 
ous journeys back and forth from Fustat to the north. In the above- 
mentioned letter to thejerusalem community, he describes his exploits on 
his return to Fustat after his wearisome journey to Damascus: he strength¬ 
ened his congregation, convened his people (‘most of the congregation’) 
on the sabbath and attempted to return them to the right path (it is not clear 
what he means by this - perhaps to make peace between them and the 
‘Palestinians’). Elhanan used the ‘Babylonian’ congregation in Fustat as a 
sort of base for his communal activities among the ‘Babylonians’ in 
Palestine and Syria. Interesting confirmation of this comes from his letter 
to the ‘Babylonian’ congregation in Damascus. This letter is expressed 
entirely in flowery phraseology and is also utterly ambiguous, so that 
today we are quite unable to understand its actual purpose. It may have 
aimed at getting help from the people of Damascus, but it seems more 
likely that its intention was more modest, namely merely to keep in 
contact with the community there. He mentions troubles (‘we are affected 
by harshjudgment’), and it is not clear whether he is writing about himself 
and personal difficulties or possibly about al-Hakim’s decrees. This latter 
possibility is sustained by what follows: ‘a law is imposed on us not to 
claim or ask for anything of our Master the King’ and there are those who 
see in this evidence that Elhanan had formerly been granted a subvention 
by the Fatimid caliph, though this is highly doubtful. That he was the 
central figure among the ‘Babylonians’ in the entire area of Egypt, Pal¬ 
estine and Syria, is proven by the fact that he (like his father Shemaria 
before him) was the intermediary for queries and responsa and the contact 
for correspondence (and evidently money as well) between the ‘Babylo¬ 
nian’ yeshivot and the Maghrib. 73 

[801] For more than a generation, it was Ephraim b. Shemaria who 
headed the ‘Palestinians’ in Fustat. His considerable involvement in the 
affairs of Palestine in general and the yeshiva in particular can be seen in the 
constant repetition of his name in the sources of the Geniza in my collec¬ 
tion, for his name is linked with seventy-one of these documents, eleven of 
which he wrote himself. In addition, his name is connected with many 
additional documents in the Geniza which are not included there, which he 
himself had written or in which he is mentioned, for he was head of the 
congregation from which the major part of the Geniza documents stem 
and whose synagogue housed the Geniza. As his full name indicates - 

73 Solomon b. Judah’s letters: 65, lines 8-9; 67, lines 29ff. The letter to the Damascenes: TS 18 
J 4, f.5; edited almost fully in Mann, Jews, II, 39f, and fully in Abramson, Ba-merkazim, 
176-179. Abramson ( [ibid ., 108) discusses the contents of the letter and assumes that 
Elhanan indeed received a subvention from the caliph, and also from the people of 
Damascus. Elhanan as intermediary between Babylonia and the Maghrib, see Harkavy, 
Tesliuvot, 2; cf. Mann, JQR, NS, 8 (1917/8), 354f. 


582 



COMMUNAL LEADERS IN CONTACT WITH THE YESHIVA [SECS. 795-808] 

Ephraim b. Shemaria ha-melammed ha-‘azzati- his father was a Gazan who 
settled in Egypt. We also know that his grandfather’s name was Yahya. At 
times, he calls himself Ephraim z. perhaps ze‘ira ‘aniya, meaning 
something along the lines of small and miserable. His Arabic by-name, in 
frequent use, was Abu Kathlr, perhaps hinting at fruitfulness, on the basis 
of ‘for God hath caused me to be fruitful ( hifrani , phonetically close to 
Ephraim) in the land of my affliction’ (Gen., xli:52). In a letter to him from 
Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon, from around 1055 (or at any rate, 
during Daniel b. Azariah’s time, that is, after 1051), he notes ‘may God 
grant you attain the age of eighty’, from which we may deduce that 
Ephraim was born in the seventies of the tenth century, at the height of the 
first Fatimid wars, which were evidently the cause of the family’s move to 
Egypt. However, part of the family may have stayed behind and con¬ 
tinued to live in Palestine, if we interpret correctly what the Gaon Daniel 
b. Azariah writes to Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn Furat, at about the 
same time as the letter mentioned earlier. He writes that Ephraim is about 
to arrive in Palestine in order to transfer his family to Egypt. Ephraim’s 
income came from his trading in perfume, andjosiah Gaon called him ‘... 
the Gazan perfumer’. His shop was in Fustat, in the ‘square of the perfum¬ 
ers’ (murabba'at al-‘attarm) and he seems to have been a man of wealth. 74 

[802] Ephraim completed his studies in Palestine and its yeshiva ap¬ 
pointed him dayyan in Fustat, as we can see from Solomon b. Judah’s 
expression, ‘graduate of our yeshiva’. We have already seen that he was 
appointed dayyan in Fustat in about the year 1000, in Shemaiah Gaon’s 
day. In about 1024, during Josiah Gaon’s time, the people of the yeshiva 
address him in letters as ‘the mumhe appointed by us, the bet dm’, and it 
emerges from this that at first he was appointed to sit in court as mumhe, 
before he had the title haver; only at the end of the Gaon’s life was he 
appointed haver by Josiah Gaon. In a statute of the ‘Palestinian’ congrega¬ 
tion in Fustat, decided upon in February 1025, he is called Ephraim ha-shojet 

74 His handwriting can be recognised by his signature (unforced) in TS 10 J 5, f. 11 (a court 
record written by Abraham b. Sahlan, in 1332/3, 1021 /2); letters in Ephraim b. Shemaria’s 
handwriting: 131, 320-329. His grandfather’s name Yahya, see for instance 274, line 22 
and the note on this; the meaning ofz. ‘., as proposed by Friedman, JAOS, 274 (1974), 94. 
One can compare the signature of Ezra, head of the Palestinian yeshiva when the yeshiva 
moved to Damascus (at the beginning of the twelfth century): Ezra ‘aniya ze'ira. See: 
Assaf, Qoves, 4. Abu Kathlr, see: Goitein, Shalem, 2(1935/6), 61, n. 47. The letter of Elijah 
ha-Kohen: 418, line 14; further on, he says: we-shimmashta dorenu, which is a simple 
expression, that is that Ephraim served all that generation in which Elijah lived, and it is 
surprising that Mann, Jews, I, 100, did not understand this. TS 13 J 10, f. 10 is a piyyuf 
written by Shemaria ha-Melammed, perhaps Ephraim’s father. The letter of Daniel b. 
Azariah: 355, b, lines 19ff. The perfumer: 46, line 16; the square of the perfumers: 292, a, 
line 22, TS 12.666 is a letter sent to Ephraim, evidently from Qayrawan, and one can see 
that the writer had commercial dealings with Ephraim, trade in medicaments and scents; 
in the same letter, the cadi of Tyre Ibn Abl'Aqilis also mentioned (see a, lines 17, 19); apart 


583 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


ha-mumhe. During Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph Gaon’s day, we find the 
Gaon calling him ‘Ephraim he-haver, who is in charge of the law of 
inheritance and wills..and in Solomon b. Judah’s time, they also began 
to call him he-haver ha-me‘ulle. 

Ephraim had no male offspring. However we do know the names of his 
two sons-in-law, one being Abu Ya'qub Joseph the scribe, mentioned in 
several letters to Ephraim, particularly those from Solomon b. Judah, who 
always remembered to send him regards - ‘and give my regards to your 
son-in-law’. This Joseph died in 1035, apparently. In a letter to Ephraim 
from Qayrawan dated 23 July 1035, mention is made of‘the demise of Mr 
Joseph ... who was like a son standing by you in all your needs’. 
Ephraim’s other son-in-law was Abu Nasr Ghalib ha-Kohen b. Moses b. 
Ghalib, who was a scribe with a beautiful handwriting. He wrote some of 
the documents found in my collection. Of his lineage, we know that he 
was a cousin of Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon, as the latter clearly 
states in his letter to Ephraim b. Shemaria. A letter of condolence on the 
death of Ephraim b. Shemaria from Daniel b. Azariah has been preserved, 
which was sent to his son-in-law Ghalib. It is interesting that Daniel did 
not know the name of Ghalib’s father and left an empty space for it in his 
letter. The address written on verso, in Arabic script, reads: Abu Nasr 
Ghalib, son-in-law of the Haver Abu Kathlr. The Gaon notes that 
Ephraim was meticulous about regularly sending the Gaon what was due 
to him and that there was a great friendship between them. 75 

[803] There is an interesting description of the man Ephraim b. Shema¬ 
ria to be found in one of the letters written him by Solomon b. Judah. His 
forbearance is outstanding. He is a responsible person who faithfully 


from commercial matters, the letter contains a request that Ephraim should send the 
writer the tractate Sukka from the Palestinian Talmud. 

75 ‘Graduate of our yeshiva’: 82, line 4. ‘The mumhe appointed by us’: 34, a, line 4; Mann, 
Texts, 1, 314, n. 6, sees here proof that Ephraim was made haver in the days ofjosiah Gaon. 
The statute: 319, lines 4, 25; cf. Goitein, Shalem, 1(1973/4), 21. In 46, b, the letter ofjosiah 
Gaon to him, he is still called ha-talmid. The appointment byjosiah Gaon: 324, lines 15-16, 
and see there further the re-appointment by Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon b. Joseph and 
Zadok, av-bet-din. Solomon ha-Kohen: 49, a, line 7; in the continuation he undoubtedly 
listed other matters the dayyan was in charge of, but the letter is torn. He-haver ha-me‘ulle, 
see for instance 112, line 2 (Solomon b. Judah). The letter from Qayrawan: 330, lines 4—5; 
see the Hebrew Index, under Joseph the scribe; perhaps he is Joseph b. Obadiah, to whom 
Solomon b. Judah sends regards, see 58, margin, line 19; and he also sends regards to his 
father, see ibid., and also in 120, lines 15, 20. The handwriting of Ghalib (his Hebrew name 
was evidently Yosef) ha-Kohen, is recognisable by his signature in 331, line 24. Elijah 
ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon: 418, a, margin top, line 9. Moses ha-Kohen b. Ghulayb 
(diminutive from Ghalib), who is mentioned in two of Solomon b. Judah’s letters (see the 
Hebrew Index), is perhaps the father of this Ghalib. The assumption of Mann, Jews, I, 100, 
that it is Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn Furat who was Ephraim’s son-in-law, naturally 
becomes invalid. The letter of condolence: 362 (and what is said here is unlike the opinion 
of Goitein, Shalem, 2[1975/6], 95). 


584 



COMMUNAL LEADERS IN CONTACT WITH THE YESHIVA [SECS. 795-808] 

performs his public duties; shows devotion in matters of saving people 
from the tax collectors and Muslim law; knows how to maintain good 
relations with the authorities; is talented in making peace and fair judg¬ 
ments. In another letter, the Gaon also says of him that he is ‘the cautious 
alert man at the service of his people’. 

On the eve of Thursday, 21 Tevet 1327 Sel., 4 January AD 1016, 
Ephraim b. Shemaria was involved in an unpleasant personal quarrel. We 
learn of this from a record of evidence written six days later in the court of 
the Palestinians in Fustat. It was a rainy night and the roads were muddy, it 
says in the record. Three slaves of a Jewish Maghribi merchant, from 
Palermo, Sicily ( mi-medmat Siqiliya), brought Ephraim to the Fustat police 
(the shurta ), as that merchant, ‘Amrun b. Eliah, claimed that Ephraim 
owed him money. Ephraim argued that as they were Jews, there was no 
reason to be judged by a cadi; but the governor before whom they were 
brought ordered them to be held ‘imprisoned under guard’ for the night, 
and with ‘Amrun’s agreement, ordered them to be tried by the cadi 
afterwards. Ephraim then presented witnesses who gave evidence that his 
appearance before a Muslim court was made under duress. Some eight 
years later, Ephraim was the victim of a plot based on perjured evidence, 
the nature of which we know little. A letter from the Palestinian yeshiva, 
sent from Ramla, and partly written in the handwriting of Solomon 
ha-Kohen Gaon, evidently in 1025, mentions this affair and expresses 
satisfaction that the plot was uncovered and that the ‘king’ himself (that is, 
the caliph al-Zahir) and also the wazir (‘the deputy with the big retinue’) 
intervened in his favour. Among the intermediaries involved in this affair, 
we encounter Abu Nasr ha-Levi David b. Isaac, of whom we know 
(though not with certainty) that he was then in charge of the adminis¬ 
tration of the income from taxes, a post granted him by Caliph al-Zahir on 
21 Jumada II AH 413, that is 10 February AD 1023. The Tustari brothers of 
the older generation (Sahl, Saadia and Joseph, the sons of Israel) and other 
notables who are not named, ‘the elders of the two parties’, that is, the 
Rabbanites and the Karaites, are also mentioned. Also the draft of a letter 
has been preserved from Ephraim b. Shemaria himself, addressed to ‘the 
elder of the generation David b. Isaac’, describing how he was rescued 
from imprisonment: ‘they planned to kill me, and set up a trap to catch me 
.. . and my eyes have seen the dungeon’. The affair produced a furor 
among thejews of Fustat (‘and the city was in turmoil’); such malice as was 
meant to be practised against him ‘had not been known since the days of 
Naboth the Jezreelite’. 76 

[804] Various documents have been preserved in the Geniza, among 

76 Ephraim’s traits: 95; ‘the cautious alert man’: 120, a, line 3. The record of evidence: Bodl 

MS Heb b 13, f. 42, edited by Poznanski, REJ, 48(1904), 171f; the document is torn on the 


585 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

them many court records in the handwriting of Ephraim, in connection 
with his role as dayyan. In these documents, there are also indications of 
his special relationship with Palestine and its yeshiva, such as in the court 
record dealing with an inheritance due to three brothers, one of whom 
lived in Ramla. The Jerusalem Gaon intervened on their behalf, as their 
money had remained in the hands of the Tustaris. A fragment of the 
Gaon’s letter contains an appeal to Ephraim concerning a man who is 
prepared to give his wife a divorce only on condition that his wife tear up 
the marriage deed; the fragment speaks of a Maghribi, but also mentions a 
certain b. Qitos from Tiberias. There was a constant interchange between 
the Jerusalem Gaon and Ephraim on questions of law, and this is particu¬ 
larly marked in the letters of the yeshiva. Josiah Gaon uses the most ornate 
and elevated phraseology in writing to him: ‘our dear and beloved, a man 
who is close to our heart... a man of intelligence and much wisdom, right 
qualities and perfect ideas ... a good soul ... a blessed man’; and in 
another letter: ‘who is surrounded by splendour ... sustains the broken 
one (i. e. the congregation) ... pure and learned ... a man of mercy .. . 
excellent in wittiness ... to be trusted in any good deeds’. 

And even more than in Josiah’s case, we find in Solomon b. Judah’s 

right side, but one can adequately understand the major part of its contents; the names 
of four witnesses are preserved there, among them Samuel ha-Kohen b. Talyon (= 
Avtalyon; misread by Poznanski), The letter of the yeshiva: 47, lines 6ff, 22, 29-32. 
Ephraim’s letter to David b. Isaac: TS 12.273; the ‘alarna is yesha ' ynhash from which it is 
understood that it was written in the Gaon Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph’s day, that is, in 
1025. On David ha-Levi b. Isaac (mentioned in a number of documents in my corpus, see 
the Hebrew Index) see Musabbihi, 12: he calls him Da’ud al-Yahudi; he was appointed 
supervisor over the moneys which the new man in charge of the dtwan al-khardj, the 
caliphate’s office of taxes, was responsible for collecting, and who replaced a certain Ibn 
Salmun al-katib. Hillel b. Yeshu’a calls him, in 251, lines 11-12: ‘Our Lord and Master 
David ha-Levi, pride of the house of Levi’. Dropsie 401 contains a letter in rhyme written 
by David b. Shekhania (the father of Yefet b. David) to ‘. . . our Lord, his honour and 
sanctity, our Lord and Master David b. Isaac, the honourable prince, who resists every 
attack and is the defender of Israel before the King and the princes and the Lady (i.e. the 
caliph’s mother) and the eunuchs ... may he have the upper hand over Kasluhim and strike 
terror in the hearts of the Naftuhim (Biblical names, by which the Egyptians are meant), 
like Joseph under the Pharaohs and Mordecai under Ahasuerus’. That David ha-Levi b. 
Isaac was a Karaite now seems certain in view of 272 (Gil, Te'uda, 7[1991], 324f), with a 
remnant of a power-of-attorney which he receives from his daughter for her marriage, a 
distinctly Karaite custom. Here we also have some indication of the social status of the 
Karaites (infra, sec. 935). It emerges that David ha-Levi had a house in Tyre as well, and 
connections with the Tustaris (Gil, ha-Tustanm, 48, 56). He was also a relative of Manas- 
seh b. Abraham al-Qazzaz; he was the father-in-law ofManasseh’s son, ‘Adiya. Cf. Mann, 
Jews, II, 446; the wazir at the time was ‘Amid al-Dawla Abu Muhammad al-Hasan b. §atih 
al-Rudhbadi, a veteran in the Fatimid administration, who in al-‘Az!z’ day was in charge 
of the taxes in jund Filasttn (‘Ramla and its neighbourhood’), and afterwards in charge of 
the army in Palestine and Syria instead of Manasseh b. Abraham al-Qazzaz (in the year AH 
381, that is AD 991). He was the wazir until 418, that is 1027, when as a result of 
accusations against him, the caliph appointed in his stead al-Jarjara’i: see Ibn al-Sayrafi, 
34f. 


586 



COMMUNAL LEADERS IN CONTACT WITH THE YESHIVA [SECS. 795-808] 

letters the most striking manifestation of his very close connections with 
Ephraim for an entire generation. He calls Ephraim band al-rabbanin (ban¬ 
ner of the Rabbanites) in a letter dealing with the recruitment of funds to 
rescue the Jerusalemites who were imprisoned because of the famous debt. 
Apparently there was a legal decision forbidding the use of the money of 
the Fustat heqdesh for such a purpose, and the Gaon tries to remind 
Ephraim that there had been a precedent for such an act, when money of 
the heqdesh was used (evidently in Fustat itself) to restore the synagogue 
and buy two buildings. It does seem that the eloquent phraseology and 
praise were well merited in this instance, but they were generally 
employed to soften Ephraim’s feelings on the matters dealt with in the 
letters. This close relationship became one of real affinity and preparedness 
to defend Ephraim b. Shemaria from attacks when his authority was being 
questioned, as we can see from the Gaon’s letter to the Tatai community — 
mentioned above - concerning the pronouncement of a ban on Abraham 
b. Aaron, cantor and preacher, for abusing and quarrelling with Ephraim. 
And if there was any misunderstanding between the Gaon and Ephraim, it 
was swept aside, with the statement that ‘what was in the heart was 
quickly erased . . . and no grudge remained, to be insisted upon’. The 
letters of the yeshiva to Ephraim b. Shemaria reveal an almost continuous 
drama, in which local legal matters are juxtaposed with disputes within 
the Palestinian congregation, quarrels with the Babylonians and even 
echoes of the differences with the Karaites which erupted from time to 
time in Fustat. Indeed, an instance of the latter emerges in the remnants of 
a letter from Josiah Gaon, which also mentions, amidst the praise and 
eloquence complimenting Ephraim b. Shemaria, the ‘sect of the bene 
‘onena’ (a play on the name ‘Anan); and it seems that the text, most of 
which is missing, spoke of Ephraim’s effective opposition to the Karaites. 

As to the subject of intercession and requests for assistance, these are 
also frequently found in the letters to Ephraim. Abraham, the son of the 
Gaon, asks him to continue aiding someone whose name has not been 
preserved, evidently someone from the Gaon’s family or one of his close 
friends, who lives in Egypt, even if he has sinned against Ephraim. 
Solomon b. Semah, who also acted as scribe to the yeshiva, writes to him 
after explaining that the Gaon is not in the city and therefore not writing 
himself, and asks him to go quickly to the aid of an orphan, the daughter of 
Abu ‘All b. Azhar. The latter had been a rich and generous man, but was 
reduced to ruin by the catastrophe that befell Ramla (evidently referring to 
the events of 1024) and died penniless. His daughter was engaged but her 
prospective husband would not go through with the marriage if she did 
not receive a dowry ( leviish ). The deceased had a sister and brother in 
Fustat and Ephraim is asked to get them to help. In addition, Ephraim is 

587 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

requested to help in the affairs of a certain Abu’l-Najm Hilal (who is Hillel 
b. Sahl al-Sahrajtl, a parnas of Fustat) but the matter is not clarified. I have 
already mentioned the repeated requests from ‘Eli ha-mumhe b. Abraham, 
that Ephraim concern himself with Abu’ 1-Faraj b. ‘Eli, the cantor from 
Mosul, who went to Fustat. 77 

[805] Ephraim’s chief associate and the dynamic spirit in matters relat¬ 
ing to the synagogue of the ‘Palestinians’ in Fustat was Yefet (Husayn) b. 
David b. Shekhania, cantor and scribe of the court. Many of the letters 
pertaining to the ‘Palestinian’ congregation in Fustat which are preserved 
in the Geniza are in his handwriting. I have already mentioned the letters 
written from Tyre in his youth, at the beginning of the eleventh century. 
His father, David b. Shekhania, served in the same position; his grand¬ 
father, Shekhania (Sakan, in Arabic) was a poet, and some of his piyyutlm 
are in the Geniza. I have mentioned above the rhyming letter written by 
David, Yefet’s father, to David b. Isaac. The family apparently came from 
Palestine, and from his letters from Tyre, it is evident that he had relatives 
there, among them a cousin of his father’s (that is, the son of Shekhania’s 
brother). Yefet’s brother, who also lived in Fustat, was called Mansur, and 
he had sons. His mother was still alive when Yefet was staying in Tyre, 
and there is also mention of his grandmother and his father’s sisters and 
their children. In Fustat, the family lived in Darb al-Silsila (the lane of the 
chain) in the Masasa quarter, in the Tujlb region, near Suwayqat al-Yahud 
(‘the little market of the Jews’). While in Tyre, he earned his living as a 
cantor, as can be clearly discerned from his letters from there. Yefet 
himself had a son and a daughter; his son-in-law Khalaf is also mentioned 
in his letter from Tyre, and in the letter of Yeshu‘a ha-Kohen b. Abraham 
the Galilean, there are also regards to Khalaf‘the son-in-law of the cantor’. 

We know that Yefet earned his livelihood from supervising the ritual 
slaughter, and we have already seen how he was appointed to this office, 
which his father held before him. Ephraim b. Shemaria points out in a 
letter written at about the same time, that Yefet (‘the son of Shekhania’ as 

77 The matter of the inheritance: 329. The divorce: 153. The letters ofjosiah: 35, 46. The 
affair of the heqdesh money: 80, b, lines 7ff. The letter to Tatai: 93. The words of 
appeasement: 122, a, lines 3ff. The sons of‘onena: 34, a, lines 5-6 (‘onenim, augurs, much 
criticised in the Bible). The request for aid from Abraham son oftheGaon: 167. The letter 
of Solomon b. Semah: 207; Hilal-perhaps Hillel b. Sahl, see: Mann, Jews, II, 99, n. 2; Gil, 
Documents , in the index: Hillel, Hilal, and see also: 204, in which Solomon b. Semah asks 
Ephraim to help a certain Faraj b. ‘Eli, who is in danger of having his goods confiscated; 
206, in which the aforementioned asks Ephraim to see to it that the friend of the writer, 
Barakat b. Hillel al-Ramli b. Qartaway, gets help with regard to the tax and is not 
mistreated when he buys goods. The cantor from Mosul: 231-235. Any stranger arriving 
in Fustat would evidently turn to Ephraim b. Shemaria, as we also see in the letter of the 
man from Constantinople ‘Eliah, the poor man, son of R. Solomon, of blessed memory, 
the scholar from the city of Constantinople’, who suffered some calamity (not known to 
us) in Fustat and lost all his money, including that which others had lent to him. He writes 


588 



COMMUNAL LEADERS IN CONTACT WITH THE YESHIVA [SECS. 795-808] 

he is called there) receives one-half the income from the slaughtering, 
while the other half is taken by al-Tabarani, that is, the Palestinian Gaon; at 
first the latter only took a third, but later on there was a request for half 
which could not be refused. At the outset of the forties of the century, 
Yefet was energetically engaged in the final restoration of the synagogue, 
which still needed finishing and repairs after it had been destroyed in the 
days of al-Hakim. In the fifties, when Daniel b. Azariah was Gaon, Yefet 
was among those who were undermining the authority of the dayyan, 
leader of the Palestinians in Fustat, ‘Eli he-haver ha-me‘ulle b. ‘Araram. 
Daniel b. Azariah stresses in his letter to the latter that ‘the son of She- 
khania’ must first of all be excommunicated. In further letters to Abraham 
ha-Kohen b. Isaac b. Furat, he expresses himself sharply on the subject of 
‘the cantor’, demanding that he change his ways. He would have excom¬ 
municated him himself a long time before that, were it not for the fact that 
Abraham was defending him. He provokes quarrels within the congrega¬ 
tion, demands special prerogatives in the prayer rote and engages in plots 
between the ‘Palestinians’ and the ‘Babylonians’. He must set down in 
writing that he would no longer pursue these aberrant ways. It seems that 
Yefet was indeed excommunicated, for in another letter to ‘Eli b. ‘Am- 
ram, the Gaon deals with the cancelling of a ban on an unidentified person, 
on condition that a written obligation is undertaken by that person not to 
continue to engage in matters concerning the synagogue and the market¬ 
place (that is, the slaughtering). It seems certain that the person was Yefet. 
After this stormy affair, Yefet evidently decided to leave for Jerusalem, 
and he stayed for some time at its yeshiva. In a letter to the Gaon, he 
describes what occurred afterwards. On his return from Jerusalem, he 
found that terrible calamities had befallen his family. His daughter died in 
childbirth and shortly afterwards, the son she had borne also died. He 
returned to public affairs and to those of the synagogue, and he mentions 
in particular that he had collected ten dinars to buy new mats for the 
synagogue. The congregation once again restored the handling of ‘the 
market’ to him, that is, the slaughtering, but for some eighteen weeks, his 
income was very slight, at 339 dirhams, half of which was taken by 
Abraham ha-masos (‘the joy’ of the yeshiva, who was evidently Abraham 
b. David ibn Sughmar) to be sent to the yeshiva in Jerusalem. There 
remained only 16972 dirhams, which amounts to less than ten dirhams per 
week. Apesiqa was organised for him, but the results were very poor, for 
the people were poor and miserable and ‘the takers are more numerous 
than the givers’, while he had to support both himself and his son. The 
work of supervision is so exhausting that frequently he cannot sleep on 

‘and God will repay you your good compensation, if you see to it that I am adequately 

treated’ (that is, if Ephraim tries to raise donations for him): see Dropsie 378. 


589 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


Thursday nights (the slaughtering was performed on Thursday nights, in 
order that the meat be fresh for the sabbath). He therefore asks the Gaon to 
let him have the second half that is due to the yeshiva. Yefet returns to this 
subject in another letter to the Gaon (from his remarks, it seems that he 
wrote a number of letters). He complains that he has not received a reply, 
but in the meantime he is informed that the Gaon’s reply is contained in his 
letter to ‘Abu Ishaq Abraham, the masos’ and that it is apparently in the 
negative, which is a reason for despair. Once again he makes the account: 
from the middle of Sivan until Kislev, that is, six and a half months, he sent 
the Gaon 23 dinars and 5'U qirats. According to the going rate of 40 
dirhams per dinar, at the time, it seems that the income increased threefold 
or more since the previous letter, for from the latter numbers, the weekly 
average was ca. 70 dirhams, as against ca. 20. In the interim, the congrega¬ 
tion placed a partner alongside him, a man who had been the pupil of 
Nathan ha-Levi he-haver (son of Yeshu'a), and they decided that each of 
them would receive half a dinar (that is, 20 dirhams) per week; they also 
appointed a certain b. Sabra to take charge of the money. We get a glimpse 
of the other side of the picture, that is, how the Gaon reacted to all this, 
from the letter he wrote to a certain ‘Palestinian’ staying in Fustat. He 
objects to ‘the son of Shekhania’ taking over the market, because decisions 
concerning the market and the synagogue must rest with the community. 
He, himself, Daniel b. Azariah, is not in need of this income. In another 
letter, however, which he wrote from Damascus to Abraham ha-Kohen 
b. Isaac ibn Furat, he takes note of what the latter wrote to him, that the 
community loves Yefet and wants him to continue in his post, and he even 
promises to submit to Abraham’s request and to send a letter of confir¬ 
mation to the community on this matter. After Yefet’s death, the subject 
of ritual slaughtering in Fustat is again reappearing in a letter written 
by Daniel b. Azariah to one of the figures in Fustat. This letter seems to 
have contained stringent instructions on the safeguarding of the money 
from slaughtering and the demand that these matters are not left in the 
hands of one individual, and that anyone appointed supervisor should be 
tested for his knowledge of slaughtering and inspection, and an explicit 
court record is to be written and then read aloud in public, in the syn¬ 
agogue. In Fustat, the storm concerning the slaughtering continued to 
rage, as we learn from Abraham b. David ibn Sughmar’s letter to the Gaon 
from the beginning of June 1056. Here we find that the individual in 
charge of slaughtering after Yefet’s death was Berakhot he-haver. He was 
joined by Aaron b. Ephraim b. Tarasun, ‘mumhe and cantor’, called in this 
letter hazan al-kenesiya; but Berakhot he-haver ousted him and began to 
slaughter and examine the meat himself ‘Eli b. ‘Amram intervened and 
took upon himself the responsibility to instruct Berakhot on the subject of 


590 



COMMUNAL LEADERS IN CONTACT WITH THE YESHIVA [SECS. 795-808] 

ritual slaughtering in the two markets, the one near ‘the bathhouse of the 
rat’ (hammam al-fa’r), and the ‘great market’ (siiq al-kabir); and they also set 
up a special committee of ten men, which had already convened, but 
nothing came of this. 78 

[806] In the second quarter of the eleventh century, the Palestinian 
yeshiva had a special relationship with Abraham (Barhun) b. Sahlan and 
his son Abu ‘Amr Sahlan (Shelah), leaders of the Babylonian congregation 
in Fustat:. We have a rather considerable number of details concerning this 
family. Its lineage has been preserved in a colophon at the end of a piyyut 
from the Geniza in which we find the names Abraham and Sahlan alternat¬ 
ing, but in the fifth and sixth generation preceding our Abraham, we find 
Solomon b. Shabbat Sunbat. Mann suggested reading this last name as 
Sunbat! (that is, coming from Sunbat, a locality in Egypt), but it is merely 
a deformation of the Jewish name Shabbat, Shabbetai, as one can easily 
discern from the coupling of‘Shabbat Sunbat’, that is, the Hebrew name 
accompanied by the Arabic name. ‘Abraham hc-haver b. Sahlan, known 
by the name of Ibn Sunbat’ is the address on a letter from Solomon b. 
Judah. Elsewhere, I have suggested that the family hailed from northern 
Persia (on the basis of the form Sunbat, which seemed to me characteristic 
of those regions), but in the meantime, I have come across a fragment of a 
letter to Abraham b. Sunbat (apparently intended for our Abraham b. 
Sahlan, and ‘b. Sunbat’ should be considered a kind of family name), with 
the address there as follows: ‘to my son Abu Ishaq Ibrahim b. Sunbat 
al-Siqilli’, that is, the Sicilian. Hence it appears that the family came to 
Egypt from Sicily. 

78 On Sakan see the note of Goitein, Finket Jubilee Volume, 133. Details on the family and 
where they lived: 316, 317; see Ibn Duqmaq, 25f, and cf. details on the places: Gil, 
Documents, Index. Khalaf is mentioned in 317, line 20. The letter of YeshiVa ha-Kohen: 
201. The letter of Ephraim b. Shemaria: MS Reinach. This position of supervisor of the 
slaughtering was called in Arabic hallal, that is, ‘the permitter’, for it is the supervisor who 
would permit the sale of the meat if everything was in order. Daniel b. Azariah calls Yefet 
in one of his letters: b. al-Hallal, see 355, a, line 21, and this is not ‘the man who unfastens 
coils of silk’ as assumed by Goitein, Shalem, 2(1975/6), 83, n. 3. On the restoration of the 
synagogue, see the documents of the forties in Gil, ibid. The ban: 342, 370. The letters to 
Abraham ha-Kohen: 355, 358. Cancelling the ban: 371. Nathan ha-Levi he-haver b. 
Yeshu'a, see: Mann, Jews, II, 103, n. 1, 220, who notes his signatures on court documents 
together with Sahlan b. Abraham and Ephraim b. Shemaria in 1040 (thus it should be read) 
and before that. The letters of Yefet to the Gaon: 400, 401. The Gaon’s letter to a 
Jerusalemite in Fustat: 356, b, lines 19ff. Confirmation of Yefet's office: 357, a, lines 3Iff. 
After Yefet’s death: 367. The letter of Abraham b. David b. Sughmar: 402; Aaron b. 
Ephraim b. Tarasun, of the family of cantors, is mentioned occasionally in my collection, 
see the Hebrew Index; TS 13 J 16, f. 1 is a piyyut in his handwriting, in honour of a certain 
Solomon the elder; Consist, isr. VII A18 is a letter written him by Sahlan b. Abraham, 
leader of the ‘Babylonians’ in Fustat; he asks him to raise money for a poor man while 
Sahlan is ill himself. To the documents mentioning Yefet b. David one must add an 
unidentified Geniza fragment edited by Toledano, Mizralj u-ma'ardv, 1(1919/20), 345; 
with the signature: Yefet the cantor b. David; Solomon b. Yefet is also a signatory there, 


59i 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

According to a court record from Fustat, dated Thursday, 28 Adar 1339 
Sel. (AD 1028), Abraham was a money-changer: ‘Barhun b. Sahlan say- 
raja’; but in some places it explicitly states that they were perfume mer¬ 
chants, as indicated by: ‘Barhun al-‘Attar’, as a letter to him from Solomon 
b. Judah is addressed. There is no need to discount either of these possi¬ 
bilities, and it is very likely that they were engaged in both occupations at 
the same time. At any rate, in the above version, Sahlan, the father of 
Abraham, is the one who is called sayraja, a money-changer. As can be 
seen in the Hebrew Index, Abraham is frequently mentioned in my 
collection, and I have already stated that he held the title haver of the 
Palestinian yeshiva. In addition to him and his son Sahlan, his other son 
Nehemiah (or Nahum) is also mentioned, as well as his brother-in-law, 
his wife’s brother (that is, Sahlan’s uncle on his mother’s side), Saadia b. 
Ephraim. 

It appears that the relations between Solomon b. Judah and Abraham b. 
Sahlan were extremely cordial, despite the occasional problems that 
would arise between the Babylonians and the Palestinians spoken of 
earlier. After the death of Abraham (evidently in 1028) the Gaon wrote a 
number of letters of condolence, one of which has been preserved in the 
Geniza. Since a man of his age has been gathered to his forefathers, writes 
the Gaon, he is depressed and prays that he shall not die in the same year, ‘it 
should not be said that they both died in one year’; and there are other 
expressions of friendship and appreciation in the letter. 79 

[807] As to Sahlan b. Abraham, it seems that his relationship with the 
Gaon was far more complex. We have already seen how he gave up the 
title haver. Like his father, Sahlan was blessed with titles which he had 
received from the Babylonian yeshiva (evidently Pumbedita), from the 
Palestinian yeshiva and apparently from the exilarch: ha-mumhe, he-hdver, 
rosh ha-seder (which evidently came from the exilarch), ha-aluf, rdsh kalla, 
segan (deputy) of the yeshiva, hemdat ha-nesi’ut (‘the cherished one of the 

and perhaps he is Yefet b. David’s son; the signature of Samuel ha-Kohen rdsh ha-qahal (he 
is b. Avtalyon), Abraham b. Mevasser, Ephraim b. Shemaria, and another three signat¬ 
ories, are also found there; this is a court record of the year 1339 Sel. (AD 1028). 

79 The colophon: BM Or 5557 A, f. 58; cf. Mann Jen's, II, 102; Gil, Tarbiz, 48(1978/9), 38. 
Details concerning Abraham and Sahlan his son, were collected and commented on in the 
M.A. thesis of E. Bareket; al-Siqilll: TS AS 180.92; although this word lacks the diacritic 
signs, the reading seems to me to be quite certain. See the letter written by Samuel 
( Sama’ual ) b. Ibrahim to his father, Abu Ishaq Ibrahim b. Shabbat, to Sicily, TS 10J 11, f. 
22. He informs him of the illness of his sister, Turfa (‘affluence’). In the address, written in 
Arabic script, one can read: ‘Ibrahim b. Sunbat, known as Shabbathay’.This Abraham may 
have been the great-grandfather of Sahlan b. Abraham. Sayrafa:TS 8 K 20, f. 1; Abraham 
declares that he owes thirty dinars to Manasseh b. Joseph; cf. Maim, ibid., 98. Al-‘Attar, see: 
90, b; cf. Chapira, REJ, 82(1926), 319; see the objections of Mann, Texts, 1,118, n. 20 to die 
above-mentioned. Abraham’s writing can be recognised byTS 10 J 5,f. 11, a court record 


592 



COMMUNAL LEADERS IN CONTACT WITH THE YESHIVA [SECS. 795-808] 

exilarchate’). Hillel he-haver of Tiberias (son of Yeshu'a the cantor) calls 
him ‘Shelah, tanna and amora (scholar of the Mishna and the Talmud), rosh 
kalla of the yeshiva of the diaspora (Pumbedita) ... son of Abraham 
he-haver of the Great Sanhedrin’. A letter of Sahlan’s has been preserved in 
the Geniza, written to Fustat, perhaps to his father, when Sahlan was 
away, which deals with a commentary to a piyyut of ha-Kallir and other 
spiritual matters. He mentions that he is boarding with someone who 
supplies him with food. Evidently the letter was written during Sahlan’s 
youth, although he already signs it ‘Sahlan ha-mumhe’. The marriage 
deed of Sahlan’s wife has also been preserved in the Geniza. He married 
Esther, daughter of Joseph b. ‘Amram the judge, on 26 Elul, 1348 Sel., 
that is 9 September AD 1037, and they apparently had a son. His wife is 
mentioned in the late fifties, after Sahlan’s death, in a letter from ‘Eli 
ha-Kohenb. Ezekiel. News concerning the widow of the ra’sal-kull (=rosh 
kalla) has reachedjerusalem, stating that she is in terrible distress, ‘and that 
is a great shame’. There is almost no doubt that the reference is to Sahlan’s 
widow. One must bear in mind that this was a period of scarcity and 
plague in Egypt. The writer wishes to know whether Sahlan’s brother 
(Nehemiah) is looking after her. 80 

[808] There are many accounts in the Geniza of Sahlan b. Abraham’s 
public activities, from which it is possible to study the affairs of the 
Babylonian congregation in general, though this is a separate subject 
which I shall not deal with in depth here. What should be reiterated, 
however, is the strong contact he maintained with Solomon b. Judah, 

concerning a public matter, from 1021 or 1022, which is in his handwriting and with his 
signature. The letter of condolence: 86. 

80 See the titles in document No. 7 (Dropsie 336) in Gil, Documents, 152, and the commentary 
there, n. 8. Sahlan b. Abraham is one of the signatories in TS 8 Ja 2, f. 1: rosh ha-seder, 
ha-aiuf hehtr (elect of) ha-yeshwd, hemdat ha-nesVut (the titles are abbreviated; the reading of 
Hirschfeld, JQR, 16(1904], 576 in this place is not correct; the date: Thursday, 21 Adar II, 
1345 Sel., 14 February AD 1034). As to the title segcm ha-yeshiva, this is evidently a 
Babylonian title, given to Sahlan by Hayy Gaon, as assumed by Chapira, REJ, 82(1926), 
325. The title rosh kalla may have been the origin of the nickname Abu Dawra (Arabic for 
kalla = the curved row of the yeshiva) which we find in 92, b, lines 26ff. Sahlan’s letter to 
Fustat: ENA 4020, f. 18, edited first by Marmorstein, Midrash haserdt, 16-19, edited again 
by Mann, Tarbiz, 6(1934/5), 80-84; it may have been written in Alexandria, to which 
Sahlan had a special link; he was involved in community affairs there, as one can see from 
Solomon b. Judah’s letter to the community of Alexandria, 74, lines 17-18, which is an 
answer to the complaints of people of this community against the local dayyan; Sahlan 
then proposed that the cantor of Alexandria, Shelah b. Moses, should be the haver of the 
city, but the Gaon turned down this proposal in his letter. It seems that the letters from 
Alexandria: ENA 4020, fs. 44, 45, are in Sahlan’s handwriting, see them in Minn, Jews, II, 
91 f. The opinion of Mann, Jews, I, 97, that the letter-writer is not our Sahlan but his 
grandfather, is not correct. The marriage deed of Sahlan’s wife: TS 20.6; edited by Assaf, 
Tarbiz, 9(1937/8), 30fF, and partly by Mann, Jews, II, 103. According to 105, lines 3-5, he 
still did not have a son; but in 137, b, line 9, Solomon b. Judah mentions his son (evidently 
at the beginning of 1043). ‘Eli ha-Kohen’s letter: 444, lines 7—8. 


593 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


though this was not always one of understanding or friendship. The Gaon 
preserves a very friendly tone, generally, and does not hesitate to shower 
him with praise. He calls Sahlan ha-yashran or meyashran, on the basis of the 
Arabic meaning of his name, ‘for mtshor [plain] in Arabic is sahla’. In times 
of distress, the Gaon turns to him for help for the people of the yeshiva or 
the Jews ofjerusalem in general. He was evidently in the habit of writing 
two almost identical letters, one addressed to Ephraim b. Shemaria and the 
other to Sahlan b. Abraham. The Gaon and his son also used the latter’s 
assistance in mediating with the Tustaris, and also in the transfer of money 
or fines. A real complication in their relationshsip arose when Solomon b. 
Judah took a sum of money destined for the yeshiva as a loan for himself 
for a certain time, a matter which I shall return to. Sahlan was very angry 
at the time, apparently, and Solomon b. Judah was prepared to sell his own 
woollen robe, through his son Abraham, who was staying in Egypt, in 
order to mollify Sahlan. It is possible that this affair, together with the 
local quarrels between the ‘Babylonians’ and the ‘Palestinians’ in Fustat 
and the episode of preferring the Babylonian title to the Palestinian, as well 
as other factors about which we know little, may have prepared the 
ground for Sahlan’s support of Nathan b. Abraham against Solomon b. 
Judah in the dispute over the office ofGaon, from 1038 to 1042. When the 
differences had been settled, however, the contact between the two was 
renewed, as one can see from my collection. In around 1045, we even find 
that Abraham, son of the Gaon, has taken the trouble to write out for 
Sahlan a detailed account in Arabic script, of the honours and titles and 
other daily events in Jerusalem between rosh ha-shana and the last day of the 
Feast of Tabernacles. 

Owing to his widespread activities in public affairs in Fustat and his 
connections with the local ‘Palestinians’ and the Palestinian yeshiva, there 
are quite a few documents in his own handwriting (which is a quite 
distinctive one) which can be found in the Geniza. Also, Sahlan apparently 
was frequently occupied copying books, either for his own or general use, 
and there are in the Geniza responsa of the geonim copied out in his 
handwriting, as well as remnants of treatises on law, such as fragments 
from Pirqoy b. Baboy; a halakhic treatise in Arabic; rules of witnesses, also 
in Arabic. Sahlan b. Abraham also wrote many piyyuflm, some of which 
have been identified and classified by their acrostics and others which have 
yet to be noted in research literature. 81 

81 The yashran and other compliments: 58, 75. Identical requests for aid sent to Sahlan and 
Ephraim, see for instance: 88, 89. The woollen robe: 80, b, lines 16ff. The letter of 
Abraham son of the Gaon: 141. Responsa copied by Sahlan: TS Box G 2, f. 146 (the sale of 
a house); TS 8.2 (lost articles and deposits). Pirqoy b. Baboy: TS 10K 9, f. 4, seeGinzberg, 
Ginze Schechter, II, 638f. The halakhic treatise: ENA 2464, fs. 43-44, cf. Adler’s Catalogue, 
140 (Talmud commentary); witnesses’ procedures: ENA 2852, fs. 22-23. Lists of Sahlan’s 


594 



THE NEGIDIM [SECS. 809-81 1] 

The negidim 


[809] The question of the negidim in Egypt, that is, whether there arose 
among the Jews of Egypt, a leader whose office and title were permanent, 
and who apart from being called ‘head of thejews’ (ra’is al-yahiid) also bore 
the Hebrew title nagid, has occupied a serious place in the research litera¬ 
ture of our time. At the foundation of the current view on this question in 
Jewish historiography lie a number of sources which refer to the negidim in 
Egypt. The first is related to the problematic figure of Paltl’el, the all- 
powerful Fatimid courtier, mentioned in the scroll of Ahlma‘as. Twice, he 
is called nagid there: ‘and to R. Paltl’el the Nagid all their sayings he [the 
king] was telling’, that is, the caliph al-‘Aziz would tell Palti’el everything 
said against him. ‘Representative and Nagid in charge, viceroy in the 
house of the king’ (in a poem in his honour quoted there). Whereas in the 
latter, it merely says that he was a Nagid in the house of the king, that is, 
he held an office in the caliph’s court, in the former, one may attribute 
the meaning of a permanent, established, communal post to the term 
Nagid. But the author of the scroll only employs this word as a hyperbole 
(like the word paqld, ‘representative’); elsewhere he uses it also, for 
example, ‘princes, negidim , who understand secrets’, speaking of the sons 
of Shefatya; also ‘He procured him the sympathy of al-Mu‘izz, his nagid’ 
(that is, God made the caliph cherish Paltfel), and here it is the caliph who 
is called Nagid. 

The next source which served as a basis for a view of the institution of 
the Nagid is a responsum of the Radbaz (David ben Solomon ibn abl 
Zimra), that is, in about the middle of the sixteenth century, according to 
whom the role of the Nagid was born out of the marriage of the Abbasid 
caliph’s daughter to the son of the caliph of Egypt. She wanted to create in 
Egypt something along the lines of the exilarch, which she knew from 
Baghdad, and a man from the lineage of the nesl’lm was thus chosen to be 
Nagid in Egypt. In his chronicle, Sambari describes the event, adding 
details taken from Arab sources known to him. He notes that this took 
place during the days of the Abbasid caliph whom he calls Tayy‘a, who 
came to power in 363 of the hijra, that is AD 973/4, and it was his daughter 


poems: Mann, Jews, II, 104f, cf. Halper, Hatequfa, 18(1922/3), 193; Marmorstein, JQR, 
NS 8(1918), 26f; Chapira, REJ, 82(1926), 320; see the chapter on Sahlan in Schirmann, 
Shmrn hadastnm, 75-78, where two of his piyyutim are printed, the second being a dirge on 
the death of Samuel ‘the third’; details on Sahlan’s other piyyutim are included in the 
aforementioned E. Bareket’s Master’s thesis; see further: ENA 2795, 3844, f. 1; also ENA 
3785, fs. 5, 6 (with a piyyut ‘In the night of the fast of the tenth’ [of Tishri, Yom kippur]). 
Among Sahlan’s poems, one should also mention a poem in honour of Abu Sa‘id 
al-Da’udi, written by ‘al-ra’Is al-jalil’, that is, ‘a noble leader’ for a ‘Davidian’, a descendant 
oftheexilarchs. The poem is in the handwriting of Sahlan b. Abraham. For the time being. 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


who married the ‘Egyptian king’, whom he names ‘Asar al-Dawla, in 
AH 366, that is AM 4745 (366 of the hijra corresponds to AD 976/7, while 
AM 4745 is AD 984/5). According to him, the exilarch in Baghdad at the 
time was Daniel b. Hasdai and he describes his elevated status, his splen¬ 
dour and standing with the caliph of Baghdad. It was from the family of 
this Daniel that a nasi was chosen and sent to be the Nagid in, Egypt. As 
Ayalon has shown in an article published in 1939, the historical germ of 
this story is made up of two elements which are completely at odds with 
Sambari’s story. Firstly, there is the aforementioned marriage of Qatr 
al-Nada, the daughter of the Tulunid Khumarawayh, to the Abassid 
caliph al-Mu‘tadid, that is, the marriage of an Egyptian woman to a 
Baghdadi, and not the reverse. Secondly, there is the marriage of the 
daughter of the Buyid ‘Adud al-Dawla to the caliph al-Ta’i‘ in 369 of the 
hijra (AD 979/80), which has no connection to Egypt whatsoever. At that 
time, the Fatimid caliph al-‘Az!z sent an emissary with letters to ‘Adud 
al-Dawla, which had nothing to do with the marriage; only that the two 
facts are recorded close to each other in an Arab source (Ibn al-Athir). As 
to Daniel b. Hasdai, he was exilarch some 200 years after these events, in 
the latter half of the twelfth century, during the time of Benjamin of 
Tudela, from whom Sambari copied the description of this Daniel’s 
grandeur. Samban then seems to have wanted to stress the antiquity of the 
institution of the Nagid (at the outset of Fatimid rule!) and its importance, 
and composed an imaginative tale out of several sources. On the other 
hand, one cannot entirely discard the possibility of the existence of a 
popular tradition which described the arrival of a member of the Babylo¬ 
nian exilarch’s family in Egypt as a result of the link established between 
the rulers of the two countries, but we have no inkling of either details or 
timing, and such a tradition would certainly have no bearing on the subject 
of the Nagid, specifically. It is possible that interwoven into Sambari’s 
story are threads from the affair of Daniel b. Azariah’s son David (confus¬ 
ing one Daniel for another), who was crowned exilarch in Egypt in 1092. 
As Goitein has shown, the institution of the Nagid only began to take 
shape in conjunction with the decline of the Palestinian yeshiva’s status, 
from the time of the Turcomans’ conquest onward, and Jewish leaders, 
who were descendants of Maimonides, were beginning to be called Nagid 
in a regular fashion only in the thirteenth century. Goitein has also suc¬ 
ceeded in understanding the reason for the appearance of this title and the 
beginning of its becoming a permanent one. From the outset, it was a title 
of honour granted by the Babylonian yeshivot, similar to aliif segan of the 
yeshiva, and so forth. In around the year 900, the title was held by the 

we do not know who this Abu Sa‘id was. The date there is: Iyar, 1357 Sel. (April or May 

AD 1046). See TS 10J 22, No. 3. 


596 



THE NEGiDIM [SECS. 809-811] 

father of Kohen Sedeq, the Pumbedita Gaon, in addition to another title: 
‘Joseph the Nagid, nezer [crown] of the yeshiva’. The same yeshiva also 
granted these titles to the negidim of Qayrawan, one of whom, Jacob b. 
‘Amram, we shall encounter below, and more than likely, to the famous 
Spanish Nagid Samuel ibn Naghrila as well. Naturally, the word nagid is 
more honourable than all the other accepted titles of the yeshivot, for it is 
the precise equivalent of the Arabic amir. However, in the period we are 
dealing with, the order of things was not that the yeshiva would endow 
the title of Nagid, and that the bearer of the title would become head of the 
Jews and hence be recognised by the rulers. The procedure was just the 
opposite: a man who came close to the authorities, who became the chief 
intermediary (generally a physician), and who also achieved considerable 
influence and prestige among the Jews for this reason, being able to 
perform significant services for the yeshiva (primarily raising funds), was 
the person granted this title. In the discussion until now, I have been able 
to portray more or less fully the Jewish communal organisation and the 
role of the Palestinian yeshiva, with the Gaon at its head, as the central 
institution and leader of the Jews of Palestine and the neighbouring coun¬ 
tries - an institution enjoying the full recognition of the Fatimid regime in 
the eleventh century. We have also seen the course of communal life in 
Egypt within the two congregations in Fustat, and how they were closely 
tied to that yeshiva and how they accepted its authority. Within this 
structure, there was no room for a Nagid, and this is not merely an 
argumentum e silentio. That is to say that not only the fact that this title is not 
mentioned during two-thirds of the eleventh century in the Geniza docu¬ 
ments, let alone in the Arab sources, is proof of the non-existence of this 
institution at that time. We have indeed encountered Jewish intercessors 
and courtiers such as the Tustaris, and Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn 
Furat, but they did not think of themselves as the leaders of the Jews, and 
even the authorities did not consider any one of them as ra’is al-yahud; this 
rank was reserved for the head of the Palestinian yeshiva. And we have no 
reason to assume things were otherwise at any time during this period, 
neither prior to the Fatimids nor in their time. 82 

82 The Scroll of Ahima'as (Klar), 35, 38; 12 (the sons ofShefatya), 31 (the caliph); cf. Ayalon 
(Neustadt), Zion, 4(1939), 135-143; see ibid., 126-134 the sources from the Radbaz and 
Sambarf and the discussion on them; see also: Cohen, Self-Government, 3-50, with a survey 
of all the sources and discussions in research to date. On p. 9, he calls the responsum of the 
Radbaz ‘a simplified version’ of Sambarf s story; but it would be more correct to say the 
contrary, that Sambarf, who wrote about 100 years after the Radbaz, elaborated on the 
story; it is always worth discussing the sources according to their chronological order. See 
Goitein, Zion, 27(1962), 22f., 165; Mediterranean Society, II, 23-40, and the references 
there, 524f, n. 2. Mann’s views of the Nagid can be read in his books: Jeu/s, I, 251-257; II, 
459-462, 477—482; Texts, I, 416-434; despite the extensive information included in his 
Geniza research, Mann did not arrive at a clear and precise view of the negidim, and 


597 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


[810] This is the general background against which we can understand 
the rise of the family of Saadia the physician b. Mevorakh. Apparently the 
family came from the Maghrib. ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel notes in a letter 
from Jerusalem to the Fustat parnas ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim, in about 
1060, that owing to ‘the mercy of God . . . the haver Abu Zikri [Judah b. 
Saadia].. . [came] from the Maghrib, to become a high hill in Egypt for all 
who come from elsewhere, from Iraq and from Palestine and from the 
west and from the land of Byzantium’; further on he highly praises his 
many generosities (but he still does not call him Nagid). This must be 
proof of the fact that the family hailed from the West, either Spain, north 
Africa or Sicily. Abu Zikri Judah was also a physician who had evidently 
achieved a certain status among the Egyptian authorities, and he held a 
rank more or less parallel to that of Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn Furat, 
who died in the fifties of the century. He was called haver and also rosh 
kalla, that is to say, he was connected to both yeshivot, the Palestinian and 
the Babylonian. In a letter from the yeshiva to that ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. 
Hayyim, dated ca. 1065, the two brothers are mentioned: ‘Judah, the dear 
haver, the excellent rosh kalla in the havura [i.e., in the yeshiva], and his 
brother, the alufha-bmot [foremost in wisdom], the excellent in the havura 
[who is Mevorakh]’. He is still not called Nagid here either. There is 

assumed that this institution was created in Egypt because the Fatimids wanted to cut off 
the Egyptian Jews from Iraqian influence, for their enemies, the Abbasids, were based in 
Baghdad. Baron, SRHJ, V, 308f, n. 45, still holds this view, despite what Ayalon has 
revealed; Ashtor, Zion, 30(1965), 141-147, also claims the validity of that opinion, and is 
still prepared to consider Palti’el as the first of the negidim; one should also consider 
Ashtor’s view (ibid., 141, nn. 280, 281) alleging that it is the court of the Nagid which 
appointed local judges and only ‘from time to time’ would they turn to the head of the 
Palestinian yeshiva. This appeal to the Palestinian Gaon, quoted by Ashtor, is mentioned 
in 73, dated ca. 1025, and written by Solomon b. Judah, who explicitly states that it is the 
yeshiva which appointed Yeshu‘a ha-Kohen b. Joseph as judge (haver) in Alexandria (as all 
judges were appointed in that period); while the appointment by the court of the Nagid 
Mevorakh, which he mentions, is from the year 1122 (!): TS 20.125, see; Worman, JQR, 
18(1960), 13. Daniel b. Azariah, before he became Gaon, mentions a Nagid in his letter 
written from Qayrawan, in 1038, to Sahlan b. Abraham: he writes that the letter from ‘our 
mighty one, the Nagid, may our Rock make him a [real] Nagid’ (i.e. a real leader), has still 
not arrived. Perhaps he means the Nagid of Qayrawan, Jacob b. ‘Amram, which is the 
view ofGoitein, Shalem, 2(1975/6), 47; but he may also be referring to Samuel, the Spanish 
Nagid, see: 344, a, right margin. The accidental and unestablished character of the use of 
the term Nagid can be seen in a letter from Sicilily written by a merchant, evidendy in 1069. 
It says there that a certain Zakkar b. ‘Ammar (undoubtedly the brother of Hayyim b. 
‘Ammar, who was the merchants’ representative in Sicily) was appointed Nagid of the 
Jews in Palermo on behalf of Ibn a]-Ba‘ba‘, who after he conquered the city, killed all the 
local commanders (quwwad) and even wiped out many local Muslims. We have not heard 
of a Nagid in Sicily anywhere else, and this is merely the writer’s way of saying that the 
man was appointed as head of the Jews of the city. See: Bodl MS Heb, d 76, f. 59 (the 
reading Ibn al-Na‘na‘ in Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 25, 525, n. 11, should be 
corrected, as it should in the Hebrew version of the present book as well, p. 490). Ibn 
al-Ba‘ba‘ is mentioned in several Geniza letters. 


598 



THE NEGIDIM [SECS. 809-811] 

almost no doubt that Judah could not have received the title of Nagid from 
the Babylonian yeshiva nor from Daniel b. Azariah, thejerusalem Gaon, 
who died in 1062. He evidently received the title Nagid only towards the 
end of the sixties, for he is so-called in ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel’s letter to 
Abiathar (15 April 1071) and another comparatively early use of the title 
can be found in a letter from a woman, a refugee from Jerusalem, writing 
from Tripoli (Syria) in about 1075, apparentlyjudah b. Saadia’s sister-in- 
law (his wife’s sister). It seems that these were the first occasions on which 
Judah was called Nagid. 83 

[811] It is very likely that Judah received the title of Nagid from the 
Palestinian Gaon Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon. Mann already assumed 
that he was granted the title during this Gaon’s time. Supporting this 
opinion are first of all the close ties between the family of the priestly 

83 Originating in the West: 451, a, lines 3-7; Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 159, attributes 
this to another Abu Zikri, Judah b. Moses ibn Sughmar; but ‘Eli ha-Kohen certainly writes 
about Judah b. Saadia, because he mentions this family of the negidim, in almost all his 
letters. One can of course split hairs and say that this passage is explicit proof only of the 
fact that Judah himself came from the West, and not the family, as is argued against my 
own opinion by Cohen, Self-Government, 133, n. 91. ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel evidently 
had some family relationship to the family of Saadia; in 450 he sends them regards and 
states that he is praying for them all the time, and also for the son of the haver, that is, 
Judah’s son; in 455 (1071), as in his other letters, he asks that they should appeal to ‘our 
Lord the Nagid, may God preserve him’ and to ‘my Master the haver, alufha-bmot, ‘the 
wise of the yeshiva, may God preserve him’, with the request to sent him aid, for he is in 
great need. In the same letter, he sends greetings to the Nagid, that is, to Judah, and also to 
his sons (lines 29fl). ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel undoubtedly came of an old Jerusalem 
family, and was evidently appointed Ijaver during Daniel b. Azariah’s time. It seems that 
he was the author of two poems (piyyutim) found in Bodl MS Heb f29, fs. 67, 71, edited by 
Habermann, Sinai, 53 (1962/3), 191f, which seem to be in the handwriting of ‘Eli 
ha-Kohen. Both are dedicated to Solomon b. Judah, and the first has an acrostic: * ‘Eli b. 
Ezekiel hazaq’ (‘be strong’) and the other: ‘ ‘Eli’. In the letters in my collection, his sons, 
Abu’l-Tayyib Khalaf and Abu Na§r Ezekiel are mentioned. The latter served as an 
emissary ofjerusalem in July 1091, when he travelled from Jerusalem to Tyre and from 
there to Fustat, see 553, a, lines 8-13. In 591, line 20 ( ca . 1130) it was said that Mevorakh the 
Nagid brought about the release from jail of a certain Abu’l Tayyib, who had been arrested 
because of his debts. Perhaps he is Khalaf, the son of‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel. In 1079 
Ezekiel is in Alexandria, where he is a signatory on a deed, TS 28.6: ‘Ezekiel ha-Kohen b. 
‘Eli ha-Kohen he-haver in the Great Sanhedrin’. His name is found in TS Box K 6, f. 120, a 
colophon of ‘the book of corrections of the errors in the books of the head of the yeshiva 
(Saadia Gaon), of blessed memory’, where on the verso it is written ‘belonging to Ezekiel 
ha-Kohen b. R. ‘Eli ha-Kohen he-haver of blessed memory’; cf. Abramson, ‘Inyanot, 67. 
Judah's titles can also be seen in my collection, according to the Hebrew Index, See Cohen, 
ibid., 132-156, for details on the family, from the eleventh century until the mid-twelfth 
century, and the family tree on p. 155. The letter of the yeshiva: 423; indeed, the important 
status of the two brothers is already shown by the fact that the Fustat community are asked 
to inform them in particular of the matter contained in that letter (a warning against a 
certain Shemaria b, Meshullam). The letter of ‘Eli ha-Kohen: 455, where he is called 
sayyidnd al-nagid. The letter of the refugee: 605, a, line 14: mawld’i al-nagid. See Mann ,Jews, 
I, 254. 


599 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


geonim and that of Saadia. One can even surmise that the two families 
were connected by marriage, for the son of Elijah ha-Kohen, Zadok, 
speaks in a letter written on 28 June 1056, to his brother Abiathar, 
evidently, about ‘our Lord and Master Mevorakh, our son-in-law’, that is, 
the son-in-law of the family, perhaps of Elijah ha-Kohen, father of the 
writer of the letter. This is not certain, since there were many Mevorakhs. 
It is interesting that Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph av-bet-dm, that is the 
nephew of the Gaon Elijah, enjoyed the patronage ofjudah b. Saadia after 
he emigrated from Jerusalem to Egypt, as we learn from a letter from ‘Eli 
ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, who expresses his deep gratitude for this. From 
another letter, written to the son of the Gaon, Abiathar, when the latter 
was in Fustat, on 15 April 1071, it seems clear that Abiathar was also in 
contact with the family of the Nagid when he was in Fustat. Abiathar 
himself speaks of the Nagid Judah b. Saadia in a letter he wrote on 
14 November 1070 from Jerusalem to that same pamas in Fustat, ‘Eli 
ha-Kohen b. Hayyim. He writes (about the Nagid): ‘may there be sal¬ 
vation for our Nagid and may he be saved from any horror’ - perhaps 
because Judah was having troubles at the time. There are also indications 
oflinks between the priestly family and that of Saadia in the letter of Saadia 
ha-Kohen b. Nathan, fromjerusalem, to Mevorakh b. Saadia. The writer 
is one of the intimate friends of the Gaon, as he says of himself, that ‘most 
of my days are spent in praying and praise [of God] in the company ... of 
the Gaon’. He mentions the devotion of Mevorakh, grandfather of Mev¬ 
orakh b. Saadia, on his mother’s side, to the priestly family and how he 
would pray for them; Abiathar as well, he says, prays for the family of 
Saadia. 

All the above facts seem to lead us to the conclusion that it was none 
other than the Gaon Elijah ha-Kohen who first called Judah b. Saadia 
Nagid. One should note that this occurred when security in Palestine was 
deteriorating, shortly before the Turcoman conquest. The roads were cut 
off and the resulting poverty in Jerusalem certainly imposed tremendous 
pressure on the yeshiva and weakened its direct influence on the communi¬ 
ties in Egypt. This may have been the reason for thejerusalem Gaon’s need 
to enhance Judah b. Saadia’s status, for he had always been a faithful and 
loyal follower. This loyalty towards the priestly geonim on the part of the 
Saadia family would later on be expressed in the bitter dispute between 
Abiathar ha-Kohen and David b. Daniel. 

Upon the death of Judah in around 1078, his status and title were 
inherited by his half-brothr Abu’l-Fadl Mevorakh b. Saadia. He is fre¬ 
quently mentioned in the documents in my collection and his name is 
accompanied by the most glowing titles and praises. We shall meet up 


6oo 



AID FOR THE YESHIVA AND JEWS OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 812-834] 


with him again in the discussion on the dispute between Abiathar and 
David b. Daniel. 84 


Aid for the yeshiva and the Jewish population of Jerusalem 

[812] I have already spoken ofjerusalem’s economy and the hardship of 
living there. The existence of its Jewish population and its yeshiva 
depended upon considerable and continuous aid from the diaspora. Many 
of the letters in my collection deal with this aid, or contain requests for aid, 
information concerning transfers of money, matters of donations, and so 
on. For instance, we have the Gaon Solomon ha-Kohen writing to 
Ephraim b. Shemaria in 1025 on ‘the poor of the Holy City ... the 
remnants ... the pained, the afflicted, the sad, the robbed, the deprived.. . 
the depressed and the maimed . .. the poor and impoverished’. Solomon 
b. Judah also appeals to the people of Fustat with an urgent request, 
proposing that they turn to the Dasatira (the Tustaris) and show them the 
Jerusalemites’ letters with their pleas for urgent help. The son of the Gaon, 
Abraham, writes about the taxes - ‘they are eating us alive’, and the people 
ofjerusalem are in need of immediate assistance as the governor of the city 
‘and all his henchmen’, ‘satisfy themselves with pieces of silver’ (this 
expression is explained in sec. 252). 

At times, the appeals for money speak explicitly of thejerusalem poor. 
For example Daniel b. Azariah’s entreaty states that a large sum of money 
should be sent in order to enable them to distribute wheat. In another 
letter, he describes how, with the help of the haverim in Jerusalem and 
especially a certain R. Joshua, the parnas, he dealt with money received 
from Fustat from Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn Furat, which was 
evidently earmarked for the poor. 

The appeals for help, which were the consequence of the war between 
the Fatimids and the Bedouin in 1024-1029, are especially poignant. As I 

84 The letter of Zadok ha-Kohen: 432; Abiathar is in Fustat and he is asked to see to the 
collecting of a sum of money due to Mevorakh from the son of Sha'ya, the merchants’ 
representative, for shemen mejuttaam (that is, fragrant oil). ‘Eli ha-Kohen: 451. The letter to 
Abiathar: 455, a, lines 14-16. Saadia ha-Kohen b. Nathan: 546; cf. Cohen, Self-Govern¬ 
ment, 140f, who assumes that it was written in 1064, according to his decision that this was 
the time when Judah was first called Nagid, whereas he is still not called Nagid here. 
However, it seems that this letter should be fixed at a later date, to 1070; Cohen here 
ignores the connection between the two families expressed in that letter, but he also arrives 
at the conclusion that it is Elijah ha-Kohen who grantedjudah the title ofNagid (see ibid., 
161f). See the discussion on Mevorakh: Cohen, ibid., 171-177, 213-271. Mevorakh died 
on Saturday, 30Kislev 1423 Sel., 2 December AD 1111, as it appears from 610 (see therein 
the note), and what Goitein wrote in his corrections in the Preface to Mann, Jett's (to vol. 
II, 203), should be rectified and also: Mediterranean Society, II, 30. In the same letter (from 
Tobiah ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli) it says that he died of the plague. This plague is mentioned in Ibn 
al-QalanisI, 181, who says that it caused the death of some 60,000 people in Fustat; see also: 
MaqrizI, Itti'az, III, 49. 


6oi 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


have already mentioned, taxes beyond their means were imposed on the 
Jews of Jerusalem and they were forced to borrow money at exorbitant 
rates of interest, which eventually led to the arrest of those Jews of 
Jerusalem who had signed promissory notes. Enormous efforts were 
made to raise money for this purpose of paying debts. Many letters from 
the yeshiva deal with this problem. A draft of a letter from Ephraim b. 
Shemaria has been preserved, apparently intended for Solomon b. Judah, 
which speaks of a great money-raising drive with the participation of both 
the Rabbanites and the Karaites, among the latter the Tustaris. Indeed, we 
know that the Karaites of Jerusalem were also seriously affected by the 
authorities’ imposition of these special taxes. Also among the participants 
in this campaign to raise money were David b. Isaac, Abu’l-A‘la ‘Amram 
b. Levi al-Buhuri, Halfon (Khalaf) b. Tha'lab (of Tyre), Joseph rosh kalla 
(evidently Joseph b. Jacob ibn ‘Awkal), Ephraim ha-Kohen b. Abraham, 
Ezra b. Samuel b. Azariah, Solomon b. Saadia (b. Saghir), Sahlawayh b. 
Hayyim, and others. Ephraim b. Shemaria was also among the donors. 
The aim of the campaign was to: ‘give to our elders the Jerusalemites and 
save them from the money-lenders’. 85 

[813] In such situations it was customary to send special emissaries to the 
communities in the diaspora to ask for urgent help and to organise money¬ 
raising campaigns. Evidence of emissaries of this kind has been preserved 
in the letters of Solomon b. Judah. In 1015, before he became Gaon, he 
mentions the emissary Azhar b. Jonah the Spaniard, who may have been 
related to the family ofjonah b. Judah the Spaniard, who was the emissary 
of the Jerusalemites during the fifties. When Solomon b. Judah was 
already the Gaon, we encounter the emissary Joseph the cantor b. Yefet 
the teacher, whom the Gaon sent to Fustat on behalf of the yeshiva, and of 
whom he writes that he is ‘a modest man’ and also that he is carrying with 
him ‘letters of the communities to Egypt [that is, Fustat] and to the entire 
region and to all the elders’. A short time later, the Gaon sent another 
emissary, Simha b. Dunash, who also bore letters to the people of Fustat, 
and the purpose of his journey was also to recruit funds. In a letter of 


85 Solomon ha-Kohen: 52. Solomon b. Judah: 91, lines 10-11; Abraham: 165; Daniel b. 
Azariah: 353, margin; 355, b, lines 39-41; see also: Daniel b. Azariah’s scribe: 383, on 
behalf of ‘the remainder of the Holy City, the sect of the poor Rabbanites’, and mention¬ 
ing ‘the payments, both regular and extraordinary’. Aid for the prisoners, see Solomon b. 
Judah’s letters, 75, b, lines 13-15; 87. The campaign: 326. The poem written by the cantor 
David b. Shekhania in honour of Sahlawayh b. Hayyim is perhaps related to this aid: 
Mosseri II 246 (= P. 46), in which he wishes, among other things, that ‘he shall see the 
return of the released captives’. (My thanks to Prof. E. Fleischer, who drew my attention 
to this poem.) Halfon b. Tha'lab of Tyre was the father-in-law of Halfon ha-Levi b. Yefet, 
‘the merchants’ representative’ in Tyre, see 278, line 18, undoubtedly one of the wealthy 
men of the city, who is mentioned a number of times in the documents in my collection 
(see the Hebrew Index). 


602 



AID FOR THE YESHIVA ANDJEWS OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 812-834] 


recommendation given him by the Gaon, the latter asks the parnas, 
Abraham b. Mevasser, to help him. At the end of this mission, the Gaon 
thanks Ephraim b. Shemaria for all the assistance which was given this 
emissary. In around 1055, Daniel b. Azariah’s scribe writes of the success 
of yet another emissary — ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, who was then the 
parnas of thejews ofjerusalem. ‘Eli b. ‘Amram, the Fustat haver, had been 
helpful to him: ‘and on this day his letter arrived [of‘Eli ha-Kohen] to us 
and to the elders of the Holy City telling of the good deeds of our 
honourable haver me'ulle, for us and the elders ofjerusalem’. 86 

[814] Contributions to Jerusalem bore an aura of holiness, as did the 
institution of the heqdesh, or the tithes in the days of the Temple. In this 
respect, they were considered the equivalent of charity and earned the 
donors a place in the world to come. In a letter from the yeshiva, we find 
equation of donations from the communities to Jerusalem with the 
treasures of the Temple. Indeed, Jerusalem attracted donations, as well as 
fines and pledges, such as the episode of Hayyim ibn Harun of Sahrajt in 
Egypt, who pledged five dinars to Jerusalem and five more to the local 
synagogue, if it was found that he had a wife in Fustat when he wished to 
marry another woman in Sahrajt. Unfortunately for him, it was found 
that he actually had a wife in Fustat, and the court decided that he was 
obliged to pay the fine in instalments. 

Another significant source of income for the yeshiva was the slaughter¬ 
ing fees in those communities that were subject to its authority, as well as 
the fees for drawing up deeds. We have already witnessed something of 
the matter in Fustat, and it seems that the same arrangements that applied 
there were generally valid, that is that the yeshiva should receive half the 
income from slaughtering. When Yefet b. David was appointed super¬ 
visor of the slaughtering in 1025, he was explicitly asked to send half the 
income to the Gaon, Josiah. We have also seen how in Solomon b. Judah’s 
day, the ‘Palestinians’ and the ‘Babylonians’ fought over the right to 
benefit from the slaughtering in Fustat, when the latter wanted to deprive 

86 Azharb. Jonah: 54. Jonah b. Judah: 420, d, line 26; 466, b, line 8; Assaf, Zion (ha-me’assef), 
2(1926/7), 113, assumed that the former was the son of the latter, because the chronology 
of the letters was not clear to him. Joseph the cantor: 88, lines 19-20; 89, lines 17-21; he 
returned from his mission safely and continued to live in Jerusalem, for we find him 
mentioned in court records also in the times of the geonim Elijah ha-Kohen and Daniel b. 
Azariah, see in my collection, according to the Index. This Joseph has no connection to 
Yefet b. David b. Shekhania, contrary to Toledano’s opinion, Mizrah u-ma‘arav , 
1(1919/20), 348. Simha b. Dunash: 111; he is undoubtedly the same as Farah b. Dunash 
(Farah in Arabic is joy, like the Hebrew Simha), of whom it was said that he originated 
from Sijilmassa and settled in Jerusalem where he married. I have already mentioned him 
above, in the discussion on taxes; see: 118, in which the Gaon recommends him, during 
another of his journeys to Egypt in 1034; the letter of thanks to Ephraim b. Shemaria: 109, 
where the only part of his name preserved is Farah, but there is no doubt that this is the 
same man. The scribe of the yeshiva: 376, lines 9-14. 

603 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


Ephraim b. Shemaria of his authority over the markets, which led to the 
pronouncement of their excommunication on the Mount of Olives. In his 
letters, Solomon b. Judah generally turns down proposals that he should 
receive part of these earnings, as did former geonim. On the other hand, 
he realises that local supervisors are entitled to receive half the income 
from slaughtering (’from the markets’) and the deeds drawn up in the 
courts (‘half the fee of the deeds’). In his opinion there is no reason to object 
to this, for ‘a man does not serve but for benefit’, on condition that he 
really labours and that he states explicitly that these payments are due to 
him for his work. In Daniel b. Azariah’s day, we encountered the affair of 
Yefet b. David and his appeals to the Gaon concerning the income from 
slaughtering. 87 

[815] The major source of income for financial assistance to Jerusalem 
came from the institution of the heqdesh, however, which was established 
for that purpose from the outset. Apparently, in Muslim law the question 
arose whether the waqf of the dhimmls should be recognised; with regard 
to the waqf for the poor there were no reservations and it was accepted as 
being self-evident in much the same way as the Muslim waqf. There was 
also a favourable attitude to the dhimmls’ waqf for the benefit of places of 
worship. We have already witnessed the pact between ‘Umar and the 
Christian population ofjerusalem in which one of the conditions was that 
no church property would be confiscated. Al-Khassaf, a scholar in 
Muslim law in the ninth century (he died in 875), states explicitly in his 
book on the rules of the waqf: ‘if a Christian dedicates his land or house as 
waqf and says that the income should go to restorations in Jerusalem, or 
the purchase of oil for the lamps there or any other purpose needed there [it 
is permitted] . . . similarly, the Jews in this matter have the same rights as 
the Christians’. I have already mentioned the shops in Ramla which were 
heqdesh dedicated to the payment of the taxes of the Jews ofjerusalem. 
In Fustat, about which we have the most information, there was an 

87 See the discussion on the religious background to charity, donations and endowments: 
Gil, Documents, llff. The letter of the yeshiva: 420, d, lines 5ff. Hayyim ibn Harun: 389. 
During the consideration of the case, there was someone who claimed that he had donated 
the entire sum of ten dinars to Jerusalem. See also the two fragments of the deed of gift 
from Tyre: TS 12.177, together with TS NSJ 338, in which it says that in case of violation 
of the conditions of the deed, 100 dinars of Tyre had to be paid to the Gaon (though the 
reading of the word Gaon is not certain). Joshua’s time: 319; the document was written in 
February 1025, shortly before the Gaon’s death. The struggle in Fustat: 79. Solomon b. 
Judah: 158. The affair of Yefet b. David: 400-402; Daniel b. Azariah himself behaved as 
Solomon b. Judah did, and stated that he was willing to forego the income from slaughter¬ 
ing (‘he does not want a market’) — 356; on the other hand, he submits to Yefet b. David’s 
request that the income from slaughtering should be handed over to him, on the rec¬ 
ommendation of Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn Furat: 357, line 31; but see also 374, in 
which Daniel b. Azariah asks ‘Eli he-haver b. ‘Amram to deliver to someone whose name 
has not been preserved, ‘everything that has been collected from the market from the 


604 



AID FOR THE YESHIVA AND JEWS OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 812-834] 


entire compound dedicated to the support of the poor ofjerusalem. In ca. 
1030, a letter from Jerusalem to Ephraim b. Shemaria asks him to send a 
list of donors and details on the income from the building donated as 
heqdesh for the poor ofjerusalem. They are awaiting Ephraim’s letter on 
the collection of donations ‘as to what he arranged to be done and what 
was done’ with information about the collectors and the donors, in order 
that they may be blessed and prayed for in Jerusalem. They also ask for 
details on the rent from the building which is heqdesh for the poor of 
Jerusalem, for they are in great distress. This may be the same building 
that Solomon b. Judah mentions in one of his letters to Ephraim b. 
Shemaria, when he speaks of a man who went up to Jerusalem on a 
pilgrimage during the holidays and told of a house dedicated in Fustat. The 
donor was Tobiah, ‘prince of the congregation’, evidently a Baghdadi, 
whose clerk, Raja’ b. ‘All, had misappropriated his master’s funds and ‘ran 
off to the land of Meshekh (perhaps Khurasan), and sat there eating and 
drinking’. We find a fragment of a letter from about the same time which 
the people ofjerusalem wrote to Ephraim b. Shemaria, complaining that 
the income from the dar (the compound) has not reached them and that 
another sum of money, evidently a special contribution from Hesed 
al-Tustarf for the poor ofjerusalem, did not arrive in time for the holiday, 
contrary to what they had been promised, and that they were in dire 
straits. The matter of the money from the house in Fustat again comes to 
the fore in some of ‘Eh ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel’s letters. A large sum of 
money was being kept by a certain ‘son of Kuraysh’ (?); this man died 
when 80 dinars of this money were still due to the Rabbanites and the 
Karaites; but the money, from the rent from the houses of the heqdesh, is 
not available, despite many letters written on the subject. There still 
remained a debt of 18 dinars, given to a certain Abu Rashid, who denies 
having the money. Daniel b. Azariah himself undertakes to arrange the 
matter. It emerges that in Fustat, rent was collected for a period of six years 
and the money has still not reached Jerusalem, while in Jerusalem they 
have to borrow money at interest in order to be able to distribute wheat to 
the poor. As the affair continues, it emerges that Abu Rashid reached 
Damascus and the cadi there had already received a number of financial 
claims against him. In Jerusalem, they seem to have had some reservations 
about presenting their claims, for evidently this Abu Rashid was a relative 
of one of the dignitaries. 

The money from this heqdesh is again referred to in 1085, that is, after the 
Turcomans’ conquest ofjerusalem, when Solomon b. Hayyim ‘the sev¬ 
enth’ confirms that he received the sum of 20 dinars from the Fustat 

beginning of Elul until the end of Kislev’, and it appears that the money must be sent to 

Jerusalem. 


605 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


parnas, ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim, which he had formerly lent to the 
Rabbanite community (‘the remnants of Israel’) in Jerusalem by means of a 
hawala, that is the endorsement of a money order; now he has received 
them from the income from that compound in Fustat donated for the 
benefit of the poor of Jerusalem, the dar al-maqddisa. After the Crusaders’ 
conquest, at the beginning of 1105, we find the sum of 90 dinars being 
transferred from Fustat to Abiathar ha-Kohen, head of the Palestinian 
yeshiva, which was already in Tyre then, of which 75 were from the sale of 
goods and 15, from the income from dar al-fa’r (the house ‘of the rat’) in 
Fustat, which was evidently a nickname for that house which had been 
dedicated for the poor of Jerusalem. 88 

[816] We have information as to how the money was being transferred 
tojerusalem. This was generally done through thejewish merchants who 
maintained most of the trading in the Mediterranean. A letter of Joseph 
and Nissim, the sons of Berekhia, to one of the important merchants of the 
time, Joseph b. Jacob ibn ‘Awkal, contains instructions regarding such 
transfers amidst various other instructions concerning trade and moneys. 
In ca. 1040, Moses b. Jekuthiel, a Spaniard by origin, happened to be in 
Jerusalem. He had come from Tyre and intended to return there, the 
reason for his visit being to receive the validation of deeds relating to his 
business from the Grand Court, that is, the court of the yeshiva. As he 
happened to be in Jerusalem, he was asked to deal with money matters of 
the heqdesh in Fustat. Moses b. Jacob, a Maghribi staying in Jerusalem, 
writes on 27 May 1054, to Nehorai b. Nissim in Fustat, and also mentions 
in his letter a sujiaja (money order) which had arrived from Egypt and 
which was being dealt with by Abraham he-haver b. ‘Amram. Here, too, 
public funds are evidently being referred to. Moses b. Isaac b. Nissim 
al-‘Abid, a Maghribi merchant, writes to Isma‘Il b. Barhun al-Tahirtl 
about the sale of 22‘/2 rath of silk, the income from which being exactly 60 
dinars, of which 58 had to be set aside for the Palestinian yeshiva ( mathibat 
al-sham). w 

[817] Generally, the money was sent by diyoqne (in Arabic sujiaja), that 

88 Al-Khassaf, 341. The heqdesh in Ramla: 49, line 17. On the dar al-maqadisa , the house in 
Fustat dedicated to the welfare of the Jerusalemites, see: Gil, Documents, 109. The letter to 
Ephraim, 405 (‘what he brought about to be done’ 'issa, cf, 420, d, line 36; 89, line 16; see 
the note ibid-). The letter ofSolomonb. Judah: 147; the matter of‘the land ofMeshekh’, cf, 
Mann, Jews, I, 130, 275, n. 2. Fragment of the Jerusalemites’ letter: 562. The letters of‘Eli 
ha-Kohen: 440, 442—444, 446; in this last letter, ‘Eli ha-Kohen again mentions letters he 
sent to the parnasim of Fustat about the income from rent from the estate dedicated to the 
poor of Jerusalem (al-rab‘ alladhi bi-rasm al-‘atiiylm). Solomon b. Hayyim: 540. Money to 
Abiathar: 561. 

89 The sons of Berekhia: Bodl MS Heb d 65, f. 9, lines 19-22; of 200 dinars only ten were 
lil-shamiym (i.e. the Palestinian yeshiva) and the remainder Ul-‘iraqiym (the Babylonian 
yeshivot). One should remember that these Maghribi merchants were of Babylonian or 
Persian extraction. Moses b. Jekuthiel: 243, a, line 13. Moses b. Jacob: 462. Moses b. 


6o6 



AID FOR THE YESHIVA AND JEWS OFJERUSALEM [SECS. 812-834] 


is, a money order. At times, however, it seems that the money arrived in 
cash, as it did in the day ofjosiah, who confirms that he received 30 
darkemomm kokhbayye. At other times, the money intended for the yeshiva 
and collected by smaller communities would be deposited with a larger 
community, as we see from a letter from Solomon b. Judah to Sahlan b. 
Abraham, a letter which confirms that ‘we wrote on this [that is, on the 
receipt of the money] to Zoan [Fustat] and we also sent a letter to the 
communities to congratulate them’. In one of his letters, the Gaon is again 
speaking of a diyoqne that has evidently gone astray. After he notes that 
thatdiyoqne, for the sum of 1972 dinars, has not arrived, and as he wishes to 
avoid any suspicion of deceit, he says: ‘if there is any anxiety over the 
diyoqne, is it not written on my name? Would I cash it twice?’. 

We also have evidence of legacies bequeathed directly to the Jews of 
Jerusalem. In one of his letters, Solomon b. Judah thanks Sahlan b. 
Abraham, head of the Babylonian congregation in Fustat, for a diyoqne of 
ten dinars for the poor of Jerusalem, left them by Abraham b. Nahum 
Tulaytull (of Toledo); he collected the money and gave it to the parndsim of 
the poor to distribute it among them. They said prayers in Jerusalem for 
the deceased and for those people who busied themselves with the de¬ 
spatch of the money. These people are also mentioned by name in the 
letter: Mevorakh b. David, a money-changer, who received the money 
before Abraham b. Nahum ’s death and handed it over to Hesed b. Yashar, 
the Tustari, who wrote a money order on the sum to thejerusalemite Fadl 
b. Daniel. 90 

[818] It was common practice to make special donations to the nte'dra 
(the cave), the synagogue in Jerusalem, which was evidently situated 
beneath the ‘Priest’s Gate’, in the Western Wall, as we shall see below. We 
know of such donations mainly from the time when the synagogue was 
damaged as a result of the collapse of the wall, evidently on a higher level 


Isaac: ULC Or 1081 J 24, b, lines 1-2 cf. Goitein, Baron Jubilee Volume, 512; idem, 
Mediterranean Society, I, 223. 

90 Josiah: 31; where he mentions Sahl b. Aaron andhis son Abu’l-Tayyib ‘Allun b. Sahl, and 
as this term darkemonim is to be found in Karaite marriage deeds (see in the Hebrew Index) 
Mann assumed, in Jews, I, 162, that the senders of the letter were the Karaite congregation 
in Jerusalem; and in Texts, I, 376, he brought up the possibility that these two were of the 
Tustari family, of which there is no proof, as he stated there himself. Solomon b. Judah to 
Sahlan: 60, lines 7-10. The diyoqne that went astray: 82, lines 14-23; the matter is 
mentioned also in 118, lines 5-8, except that there most of the text has been lost; see the 
matter of the diyoqne expected in Jerusalem which had still not arrived, also in 75, a, lines 
37ff, Here is a small list of dispatches of money from Fustat to the yeshiva by diyoqne, the 
details of which have been preserved in the letters: 110, line 16-10 dinars; 112, a, lines 7-10 
-29Vs dinars; 116, a, lines 15-19- I 8 V 3 dinars; 120, a, lines 5-11 - 19'/2 dinars; 121, lines 
24-25 - 25 dinars; 146, lines 5-7 -10 dinars, and the same sum in 147, a, lines 5-12; and in 
the last two letters, there is also the matter of the legacy. I have already mentioned the 
matter of the legacy found in 440; see another example of a legacy: 154. 


607 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

of the Temple Mount, apparently in 1035. In one of his letters to Ephraim 
b. Shemaria, Solomon b. Judah mentions sums of money which had 
arrived from Fustat for the restoration work, for ‘the stones and the plaster 
and the workers’ wages’; ‘the work is great’, and hence ‘the amount 
needed for the restoration of the rne'dra was great as well’. 

In return for collecting money for Jerusalem, the donors and those who 
raised and collected the contributions were honourably compensated by 
having their names read out during the assembly on the Mount of Olives 
on the last day of the Feast of Tabernacles. At that time, Jerusalem was full 
of Jewish pilgrims who would gather on the mount to hear the Gaon’s 
sermon. The mentioning of a person’s name on this solemn occasion was 
considered the greatest of honours. It was said that in this fashion, for 
instance, a benediction was said for Ephraim b. Shemaria, who sent a 
diyoqne for the sum of 29 and Va dinars ‘from our brethren, the people of 
Egypt’: ‘and we blessed him on the day of Hosha'na’. Letters of thanks 
were also written, apart from this. Solomon b. Judah expresses his grat¬ 
itude to the ‘masos [joy] of the yeshiva’ and to another anonymous contrib¬ 
utor, and promises to pray for their healing. Abraham, the son of the 
Gaon, sends a letter of thanks, full of praise (evidently at Sahlan b. 
Abraham’s request) to Nethanel b. Halfon for his extreme kindness and 
his abundant gifts. Another letter was sent by the Gaon’s son to Abraham, 
the son of‘Solomon the representative, may he rest in Paradise’, to thank 
him for his donations. The letters of thanks from the yeshiva were usually 
couched in the most ornate and rhyming phraseology, such as: ‘these are 
the congregations of Zoan [Fustat], who make wormwood sweet, are the 
support of those who dwell in Canaan, are the ones who erect a tabernacle 
that shall not be taken down’ (Is., xxiii:20). 

One should bear in mind that the information available to us from the 
Geniza letters relates mostly to the heqdesh foundations in Fustat and the 
contributions from Fustat, which was where the Geniza was situated. But 
there is no doubt whatsoever that similar arrangements existed in the other 
communities in the whole diaspora as well as in Palestine itself, as we have 
seen. Above, we have encountered the episode of the pledges to Palestine 
brought from southern Italy, as we are told in the scroll of Ahima‘as. Sums 
of money sent from Sicily are mentioned and the people of Sicily promise 
Josiah Gaon that they will try to renew the shipments of money which had 
come to a halt owing to the heavy taxes imposed on them. A certain b. 
Mansur, who arrived in Fustat from Sicily, brought 35 dinars with him 
and he added them to the aforementioned fund for the imprisoned debt¬ 
ors. There is also mention of more than 200 dinars sent to this special fund 
with a caravan of Muslim pilgrims from the Maghrib. Donations from 
Tyre are also mentioned, in the form of various amounts of money, as are 


6o8 



AID FOR THE YESHIVA AND JEWS OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 812-834] 

personal gifts, from a dinar to a quarter of a dinar, sent to the head of the 
yeshiva, to the av-bet-din, to the ‘third’, by Joseph b. Nahum al-Baradanl 
with Jacob b. Samuel al-AndalusI (the gifts are listed according to the 
status of the recipients). Fifteen dinars sent to the yeshiva are also men¬ 
tioned there, which were handed over to the ‘fourth’, who confirmed 
having received them. The major portion of assistance for the afore¬ 
mentioned restoration of the me'drd also came from Tyre (as Solomon b. 
Judah notes in his letter to Ephraim b. Shemaria). In a letter to his son 
Abraham, who is staying in Fustat, the Gaon states that 20 dinars arrived 
from Sicily and ten more are about to arrive, and in the continuation, he 
mentions sums of money which came from Tyre. The man who brought 
the money from Tyre demanded too high a fee for this task - half a dinar 
for four dinars and three-quarters of a dinar. This was apparently a regular 
monthly sum which Tyre would send to Jerusalem. The Gaon suggests 
that instead of this expensive arrangement, they should put together the 
money collected for a number of months and with the accumulated 
money, they should buy merchandise. In another letter, the Gaon tells of 
the aid from Syria: ‘and if it were not for the ma'ase (meaning here: 
fund-raising) of Syria and other countries abroad, we would be in the 
earth’. 91 


‘Aliya (immigration to Palestine) and pilgrimage 

[819] During the period under discussion, despite the availability of 
hundreds of preserved letters from the Palestinian yeshiva, we do not find 
letters or literary sources which call for immigration to Palestine. From 
these letters and fragments, it is clear that thejews of the diaspora were not 
called on to emigrate to Palestine and to settle there; furthermore, the act 
of leaving Palestine does not appear to have made much of an impression 
on the Palestinian Jews. In the twenties of the eleventh century, we find the 
Gaon Solomon b. Judah giving a letter of recommendation to Sedaqa b. 
Menahem, whom ‘the Great Elder, the Mighty Master [that is, Hesed 
al-Tustarf] promised to write for him to one of his servants to enable him 

91 The restoration of the rne'drd: 120. The benediction for Ephraim: 112, line 14. ‘The masds of 
the yeshiva’: 130, lines 30-32. Nethanel b. Halfon: 140. Abraham b. Solomon the 
representative: 150; Solomon ‘the representative’ is evidently Abu Nasr Solomon [Sa- 
lama] b. Saadia [Sa‘id] b. Saghir; it seems he was called ‘the representative’ because he was 
a trustee of orphans, see 61, line 22; 76, b, line 2; he is frequently mentioned in my 
collection, see the Hebrew Index. The ornate phraseology: ENA 223, f.2v, lines 9if; there 
are many similar documents in my collection. The people of Sicily: 45, a, lines 22f. B. 
Mansur: 326, and ibid., the matter of the money from the Maghribis as well. Tyre: 493. 
Help from Tyre for restoring the me'ara: 120, a, line 27. Solomon b. Judah: 80, b, lines 25ff, 
written on 17 May 1029. The information there on moneys evidently parallels what 
Ephraim b. Shemaria writes on the aforementioned special appeal, for it speaks of aid to 
release imprisoned debtors. ‘Syria’s fund-raising’, see 151, line 11. 


609 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


to get help ... in transferring his household to Egypt, in order to obtain a 
livelihood there. I would wish that you, the ahiiv (beloved; of the yeshiva), 
should guide him, as is your custom’, and so on. In his letter to Ephraim b. 
Shemaria, Abraham, the son of the Gaon, recommends someone, with 
only the name of his father preserved: Moses, a Maghribi who had tried to 
settle injerusalem and was forced to return to the Maghrib because of the 
distress in Jerusalem. He even asks Ephraim to speak to ‘the people to 
come to give him donations’. The man came from ‘the birthplace of our 
Master the Gaon’, that is from Fas, as did Solomon b. Judah. In a similar 
vein, there is another letter from Abraham, son of the Gaon, about a man 
who fled to Damascus because of the heavy taxes imposed on him by the 
governor of the town; from Damascus, he came to Palestine. On the way, 
he was attacked by highwaymen and robbed of all he possessed. He wishes 
to go to Egypt where he may be able to obtain the means he needs to return 
to his own locality. However, we find in another letter from Abraham, 
son of the Gaon, a blessing for someone who ‘went down’ to Egypt: ‘God 
[will help him] to return to settle in the Holy City’. Rawh ha-Kohen b. 
Pinhas, a cantor from Baghdad, writes to Ephraim b. Shemaria, from 
Tyre evidently, that he considers staying in Acre or Tyre for the winter 
until ‘God changes things for the better’ and he intends reaching Egypt. 
Yeshu‘a he-haver b. Sabgha arrives in Fustat with his family and requests 
the townspeople to help him settle there. There is no doubt that this man 
came from Palestine, as can be seen from the fact that he is mentioned in 
the letters of Solomon b. Judah and ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel. The tiny 
letters surrounding his signature indicate that Sabgha was the son of 
Hedweta b. Yahya b. Shevna, names that were still in use in Palestine. 

Daniel al-QumisI, who wrote his manifesto to the Karaites ‘to go up’ to 
Jerusalem in about the year 900, understood exactly the view of the 
Rabbanites on this subject: ‘and know that the villains who are in Israel 
speak to one another; we must not go to Jerusalem until He [God] will 
gather us just as He dispersed us’. 92 

[820] True, the people of Jerusalem were well aware of their position 
and value as viewed by the Jews of the diaspora. In their letters, they did 
not call for immigration, but stressed their special status and the advantage 
of being in Jerusalem. This idea was generally expressed in opening 
phrases requesting financial aid. According to a letter from the Jerusalem 
yeshiva, they ‘are mishandled, plucked . .. broken by oppressors . .. erect 
a tabernacle that shall not be taken down ... are the cream of the assembly, 
keepers of the regulations, poorest among people, the most honourable 

92 Sedaqab. Menahem:60. The Maghribi: 113. Abraham son of the Gaon: 123,166. Rawhb. 

Pinhas: 211. YeshiVa b. Sabgha: 338; he is mentioned in 120(Solomon b. Judah) and in 449 

(‘Eli ha-Kohen). The comment of Daniel al-QumisI (his treatise will be dealt with in the 

6io 



‘ALIYA AND PILGRIMAGE [SECS. 819-834] 


among paupers’. These florid expressions, to the extent that they express 
an awareness of the importance of living in Jerusalem, also reflect the 
hardship. Above, we have already witnessed the straitened circumstances 
to which the city was reduced. Abraham b. Isaac al-Andalusi’s letter, 
written in about 1050 from Jerusalem to his partner Joseph b. ‘All ha- 
Kohen Fasi, makes interesting reading. He describes the severity of the 
situation in Palestine due to the ahdath, the local armed bands, and that he 
and those members of his family who are living there, suffered from 
serious illnesses when they stayed in Ramla and also in Jerusalem. He is 
still very attached to Qayrawan, where he left the remainder of his family. 
Indeed, he asks his partner to buy two scarves, one green and the other 
blue, for his cousin, an orphaned girl who remained in Qayrawan, as well 
as a mindil (a kerchief) for a Torah scroll, and to see to it that they are sent to 
their destinations in Qayrawan. In the continuation, in answer to the 
question put him by his partner as to whether he intends to settle in 
Palestine and whether he believes that he will have sufficient income to live 
on there, he explains to him how difficult life is in the city, and adds that 
after ‘the little fast’ (apparently meaning the 9th of Av) he will set out on 
his way. Moses b. Jacob, brother ofNehorai b. Nissim’s wife, who lives in 
Jerusalem, writes from there on 27 May 1054 and also complains of the 
poverty in the city and the meagreness of his income. Even a strong and 
healthy man with a great deal of money would find it hard to live in 
Jerusalem; how much more so is this the case with him, an ailing man in 
reduced circumstances. Yet he does not intend leaving Jerusalem, for just 
being in the holy place outweighs all else. 

We have seen then that while their self-estimation was high, they had to 
cope with difficult circumstances, including terrible hunger and physical 
dangers. In the main, however, the Muslim world was open, and whoever 
wished to come and settle in Palestine was free to do so. At any rate, the 
Jewish population in Palestine was an established fact. As we have seen, 
there were many Jewish communities in Palestine, and one can generally 
assume that they consisted of the descendants of the Jews who had lived in 
Palestine permanently since Joshua bin Nun’s day. They were not faced 
with the task of renewing thejewish population and this was evidently the 
main reason for the absence of sermonising on the need to immigrate. In 
this respect they differed from the Karaites, as we shall see. 

The picture would not be complete if I ignored the basic state of mind 
that was common at the time, namely the reservations regarding 
thoughts, and even more so, actions, that could be interpreted as if they 
were setting a close date for events that were to happen in the future, in the 

chapter on the Karaites): Bodl MS Heb d 36, fs. 13, 16, edited by Mann, JQR , NS 

12(1921/2), 273 ff, see ibid., 283. 


6n 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


days of the Messiah. Messianism and hastening the coming of the Messiah 
are the refuge of dissenting sects. Saadia Gaon rejected the Karaite in¬ 
terpretation - awakening to immigration - of the verses in Isaiah (lxii:6-7), 
‘I have set watchmen upon thy walls, O Jerusalem’, etc. With this he also 
repudiated the very idea of hastening the arrival of the Messiah, which was 
the aim of the Karaites. In his view, the words of the prophet in these 
verses express abstract ideas, and their purpose is to point to the humili¬ 
ating circumstances which would exist before salvation; also, in the words 
of the Bible, there is the demand that Jews mend their ways, but that the 
act of salvation should be left to Heaven. He also objected to the saying of 
the benediction: ‘You shall kindle a new light over Zion’, ‘because the 
sages did not make this benediction on the light of the future during the 
days of Messiah but on the daylight which shines daily . . . therefore 
whoever says it would be better silenced’. In the prayers, he also stressed 
that one should be strict about saying only: (God) ‘who redeemed Israel’ 
and not ‘who redeems Israel’. In the same manner, he also rejected the 
version ‘the Rock of Israel and its redeemer’. It is also possible, however, 
to see in all this a basic general attitude against adding benedictions to those 
decided on by the ancient Sages, as Heinemann presumed. However, 
someone who would have supported the hastening of the coming of the 
Messiah and induced salvation, and who had been prepared to expound on 
immigration to Palestine in his day, would certainly not have formulated 
his comments in the manner chosen by Saadia Gaon. 93 

[821] Although there was no formal encouragement to immigrate, 
immigration did occur. This was undoubtedly motivated by the deep love 
of Zion imbedded in the heart of every Jew, but there were also topical 
causes. If that were not the case, we certainly would not find Babylonian 
congregations in Palestine, as we have seen above. In about the mid-eighth 
century, R. Ahai of Shabha, author of the She’iltot, immigrated (‘went up’, 
selTq) to Palestine. The Babylonians in Palestine and their customs are 
mentioned in the early writings of the geonim. They say the Kedushah 
(benediction) every day ‘in Jerusalem and all the cities where there are 
Babylonians, and they stirred up quarrels and ruptures until (the com¬ 
munities) agreed to say the benediction every day; but in the rest of the 
cities and towns in Palestine which have no Babylonians, they do not say 
the benediction except on the sabbath and holidays’. There was a sizeable 

93 The letter from the yeshiva: ENA 223; see similar phrases also in 420. Abraham b. Isaac: 
504. Moses b. Jacob: 462. Seethe Commentary of Saadia Gaon to Is., lxii (ed. Derenbourg), 
III, 140; cf. Wieder , Judean Scrolls, 103, n. 3; Baron, Saadia Anniversary Volume, 47. On the 
deletion of the passage ‘You shall kindle a new light over Zion’ from the benediction on 
the creation of the luminaries, as enacted by Saadia Gaon and his reasons for this act: see the 
Siddiir of Saadia Gaon in the introduction, 25, and in the text of the Siddur, 37 and the notes 
to line 6; see Heinemann, Sefer ha-shana (Bar Ilan), 1(1963), 221-227. 


612 



‘ALIYA AND PILGRIMAGE [SECS. 819-834] 

addition to the Jewish population of Palestine after 943, when there was a 
largejewish migration (‘the rich among thejews’) due to the internal wars 
and persecution prevailing in Baghdad. We have the direct evidence of a 
Babylonian who immigrated to Palestine and lived in Jerusalem, in the 
form of a divorce from the year AM 4633, that is AD 872/3, given to his 
wife by ‘Hanina b. Yannai Joseph (?) from a place named Baghdad and 
living in Jerusalem’; the name of the woman is ‘Tamar . . . from Nisibis 
and living in Jerusalem’. 

Waves of immigration also came from the Maghrib, especially during 
the period of political disintegration and severe persecution of the mid¬ 
eleventh century, when nomad tribes took over Qayrawan. We have 
evidence of these new immigrants, for they generally were in need of aid 
from the local Jewish leadership or of relatives who had remained in the 
diaspora, and some of their letters reached the Geniza. At times, there 
were recriminations and complaints on the part of relatives who had 
remained in their places. For instance, a certain person from Qayrawan 
writes and asks of his son who is living in Egypt, to try to obtain the 
Mishna bequeathed him by his father, from his son-in-law who has left for 
Palestine. If the latter does not respond, he proposes to pronounce him 
excommunicated because in addition to the Mishna, he also owes him 
1000 dirhams. I have already mentioned the affair of a certain b. Moses the 
Maghribi of Fas. There was a colony of Maghribis injerusalem at the time, 
as we have seen, and I have already spoken of Israel b. Sahlun, Avon b. 
Sedaqa and others. The episode of a family from Fas which settled in 
Jerusalem is hinted at in two letters, one written from Damascus by Isaac 
the cantor, father of the family, and the other from his son Daniel from 
Jerusalem. The first is a letter of thanks addressed to the parnas of Fustat, 
Abraham b. Haggai, who together with Sahlan b. Abraham, looked after 
his brother Mufarrij when he arrived from Byzantium (they evidently also 
helped him settle the matter of the poll-tax). The writer arrived (from the 
Maghrib?) in Tyre and from there went to Damascus, where he became 
the guest of Meshullam b. Yefet, who looks after him as if he were his own 
son. Another Damascene and one of the heads of the community, ‘Eli b. 
Yefet ha-Levi, also cared for him. He has arranged that prayers should be 
said in the synagogue in Damascus for the generous people of Fustat. In 
the meantime, he married the daughter of his uncle on his mother’s side in 
Damascus (evidently his second wife). After Passover, he thinks of leaving 
for Egypt in order to earn something towards his livelihood, and after¬ 
wards to move to Jerusalem. If this Daniel is indeed the son of this Isaac, 
then the letter which he wrote from Jerusalem to ‘Eli b. Sedaqa goes to 
prove that the family did in fact settle injerusalem. An interesting letter 
from a Maghribi who lives injerusalem is that of Abraham he-haver b. 


613 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


‘Amram, who writes to a certain b. Moses ha-Kohen in Ramla, who is 
about to leave for the Maghrib. After expressing his regret at not being 
able to meet with him personally, he asks if he would take two letters for 
him to Qal‘a (which is Qal'at Ayyub), one to the dayyan and the other to 
the brothers Maymun and ‘Imran the cantor, sons of al-jurawl (‘Imran is 
perhaps the father of the writer of the letter). In addition, he asks him to 
travel to Qal‘a and deliver the letters himself, so that no one else could read 
them. We learn from the letter that the addressee’s planned itinerary is: 
Alexandria, Mahdiyya, Qayrawan, Qal'at Ayyub. The most important of 
his requests, he explains, is that if the addressee should meet his brother 
somewhere along the way, or in Alexandria, he should try to convince 
him to come to Jerusalem as well. There seems to have been a group of 
people from Qal‘at Ayyub in Jerusalem, and one of them was evidently 
Israel b. Sahlun. It is also worth mentioning the appeal of Nathan ha- 
Kohen b. Mevorakh of Ascalon to ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim in Fustat, on 
behalf of Solomon b. Benjamin, a war refugee who intends to immigrate 
tojerusalem. Apparently he is referring to a Maghribi. In the meantime, it 
is said, he has had to look for charity and has gone to Fustat for this 
purpose. 94 

[822] The Spanish immigrants tojerusalem are a subject on their own 
(although Spain, al-Andalus in the letters of the period, was also included 
in the term Maghrib, and referring to a Maghribi may indicate a Spaniard). 
A fragment of a letter written in 1049 contains information concerning an 
important man, whose identity has not been preserved, who evidently 
came from Spain tojerusalem and died there. It emerges that a trustee was 
appointed on behalf of his sister to deal with the matter of the inheritance. 
After leaving his homeland, this man stayed for two months with ‘the 
western king’s slaves’, that is, in a region of the Maghrib under 

94 R. Aha: the letter of Sherira Gaon (Lewin), 103. The matter of the Kedushah: Ginzberg, 
Gitize Schechter , II, 524; see also: Mann, REJ, 70(1920), 139f. in the epistle of Pirqoy b. 
Baboy; cf. Grossman, Cathedra, 8(1977/8), 137ff. See the opinion of Lewin, Tarhiz, 
2(1930/31), 389, that Yehudai Gaon wanted to convince the people of Ifriqiya (that is, the 
region of Tunis), who practised according to Palestinian custom, to behave according to 
Babylonian custom, through Pirqoy b. Baboy; see also: Spiegel, Wolfson Jubilee Volume, 
243ff. The exodus from Iraq in AH 331 (which began on 15 September AD 942): al-Suli, 
251; Ibn al-Jawzi, Muntazam, VI, 331, who adds that some of them went to Egypt, while 
al-Suli speaks only of al-Shdm; Dhahabi, Ta’rikh (MS Paris), 197a. The divorce: TS NS 
308.25, see in Margaliot, Hilekhot eres isra’el, 121, and see the photocopy. No. 21. The 
episode of the son-in-law: TS 13 J 29, f. 7, written on vellum. The family from Fas: 241, 
242, On Abraham and Isaac, sons of Haggai (Hujayj) ha-Kohen, cf. Davidson, Ginze 
Schechter, III, 243 and the poem TS 8 K 14, f. 1 printed by him there, 248ff, evidently a 
dirge on the death of the father Haggai, containing high praise of their generosity. The 
letter of Abraham he-haver: 524. Nathan ha-Kohen: 582. One should also mention Farah 
b. Dunash of Sijilmassa, whom I have already mentioned above, who immigrated to 
Jerusalem, married and had children there, and even began to pay the tax as a permanent 
inhabitant, see: 118. 


614 



•ALIYA AND PILGRIMAGE [SECS. 819-834] 

Fatimid rule. He had to flee from there (because of tax matters?) to Egypt 
(evidently Fustat), where he became a cantor and seems to have acquired 
the reputation of being a learned man, and to have carried on a correspond¬ 
ence with Nathan ‘av-bet-dm of all Israel’, that is, Nathan b. Abraham. He 
reached Jerusalem in AM 4806, or AD 1046, three years before the letter 
was written, from which we have ascertained the time of its composition, 
which is undoubtedly shortly after the death of that immigrant. He was 
well-received in Jerusalem and was even given the honour of serving as 
cantor on Yom kippur. When he fell ill, the entire community prayed for 
his recuperation. It appears that he came from a family of negtdm, but we 
cannot be certain. He may have stemmed from Samuel the Spanish 
Nagid’s family, or perhaps the reference is merely to people of standing or 
public leaders. Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon mentions in a letter to 
Ephraim b. Shemaria, ‘a man of Spain’ who arrived injerusalem and who 
was ‘crying out for his wife’, that is, an immigrant from Spain who 
shouted and demanded that his wife be brought to him injerusalem. They 
quickly arranged a power-of-attorney deed ( wakala) for someone to fetch 
his wife from Egypt. 

In 1057 Simon b. Saul, of Tulaytula (Toledo) writes from Jerusalem to 
his sister Balluta, who had remained in Tulaytula. This was a large, 
widespread family, some of whom (among them Saul, father of the 
family) immigrated to Palestine while part of the family remained in 
Spain. The writer prays for them ‘in that exalted place, Jerusalem the 
Sanctified’. He has taken a wife injerusalem and is pleased with his wife’s 
family. In his letter, he describes a serious illness contracted by her father. 
In Tulaytula - it appears from the letters he receives from there — there is 
starvation and plague (which may partly account for their immigration). 
From what he writes about other Spanish families injerusalem, one gets 
the impression that there was an entire colony of Spaniards there. There 
was also a family from Majrit (Madrid), he writes, but they all died and no 
one from Majrit was left in the city. He speaks of the women of Tulaytula 
as if they were a faction of their own. People from Spain still continue to 
reach Jerusalem, some coming via Byzantium. 

We find an inhabitant of Ramla named Mukhtar b. Solomon (Salama) 
al-Dimashqi, that is, his father immigrated from Damascus to Palestine. 
‘Atiyya ha-Levi b. Judah was a man from Aleppo who settled in Palestine 
from whom a divorce is sent to his wifejamila, daughter of Sedaqa, who 
remained in Aleppo. 95 

[823] We also encounter immigrants from Egypt. A number of them are 

95 The fragment from 1049: 565; Goitein, Sltalem, 2(1975/6), 56 (= ha-Yishuv 143) assumes 

that perhaps Daniel b. Azariah and his arrival in Jerusalem is being referred to; he 

undoubtedly assumed this for the reason he notes there - the absence of a photocopy of the 


615 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

mentioned in the Geniza owing to litigation dealing with their wives. A 
certain Joshua relinquished ‘the many worldly pleasures, with which he 
became sated, and preferred to avoid the masses, to get rid of devils and 
[spirits] wandering in the desert, but wanted to increase his faith and dwell 
in the city of the palace. Therefore it becomes anyone who fears [God] and 
loves Him, to support and aid him, with no refusal’, and so on (all this is 
expressed in rhyme). The man cannot return to Egypt (perhaps because of 
his fear of taxes?), and Solomon b. Judah asks that his wife, who refuses to 
leave her father’s house, should be induced to join her husband. It seems 
that he has left with her a conditional divorce. Hiba al-Basri (that is, his 
origins were in Basra, Iraq) ibn Isra’Il al-A‘raj settled in Ramla, but his 
wife remained in Fustat. He gives a power-of-attorney to Abraham b. 
David al-Kafrmandl to bring her from there, ‘for I am in Ramla and cannot 
go dow r n to her in Egypt’. Sedaqa al-Bawardl b. ‘Eli al-Dimashql also 
immigrated from Fustat and settled in Ramla. His wife, Mudallala, daugh¬ 
ter of Wahban, appoints Joseph b. Mansur as trustee, in order to obtain a 
divorce, alimony for a year and the me’uhar, that is, the sum due her 
according to the marriage deed. A similar case is mentioned in Solomon b. 
Judah’s letter to Jacob ha-me‘uttad b. Joseph: Solomon b. Khalaf al-Barql, 
of Barqa in Libya, left his wife in Egypt and immigrated to Palestine. He 
asks that she join him in Palestine; if she refuses, he is prepared to give her a 
divorce, though there are still details which need clarification regarding 
property and the financial support of their daughter, who stays with her 
mother. 

In one of Daniel b. Azariah’s letters, from the fifties of the eleventh 
century, he mentions another immigrant from Egypt, a certain Moses 
who immigrated to Jerusalem from Fustat and who, on arriving in Jerusa¬ 
lem, poured into the ears of the Gaon his praises of ‘Eli b. ‘Amram, 
especially on ‘his great love and care and response to our needs’. There 
were people of Byzantium, -who in passing through Palestine on their way 
to Egypt decided to settle injerusalem. This was the case in 1061, when the 
Maghribi Israel b. Sahlun mentions in a letter to his cousin Nehorai b. 
Nissim the brothers Ruya and Levi, Simon, Isaac (the scholar of the 
group), his son Baruch (perhaps this is the same Baruch b. Isaac who 
afterwards settled in Aleppo). In another of his letters, he mentions an 
immigrant from southern France, Yeda'ya of Narbonne. 

We also find immigrants from Egypt in Tiberias. Mubarak b. Wahb 
immigrated from Fustat and settled in Tiberias, and he writes to his 
brother-in-law who remained in Egypt, Khalfa ibn Ibrahim: ‘and if you 

fragment. The matter of bringing the woman: 413. Simon b. Saul: 457; al-Dimashqi: 22, a 

deed of trusteeship from 29 April 1015 written at the request of his wife, Malka daughter of 

Rawh. ‘Atiyya ha-Levi: 406. 


6l6 



‘ALIYA AND PILGRIMAGE [SECS. 819-834] 

have indeed decided to go to Palestine, then go to Tiberias’; ‘Tiberias is 
cheaper than Ramla’; the bread there costs only one dirham per rati. And to 
end this chapter concerning immigrants and against a background which 
lacked any sermonising on immigration and displayed indifference to the 
incidence of people leaving Palestine, I shall quote the letter of Elijah 
ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon, who was then av-bet-dm of the yeshiva, to 
Ephraim b. Shemaria, in about 1055: ‘Amram ha-Melammed [ the 
teacher’] the Jerusalemite left his wife and children in Jerusalem and is 
staying in Egypt, and Elijah ha-Kohen writes to Ephraim b. Shemaria that 
‘Amram is grateful for the benefactions he bestowed on him in Fustat fit 
seems he wrote to the yeshiva about this] but, the writer adds, ‘help him to 
return to his home, to eat onions in Jerusalem rather than chicken in 
Egypt’. 96 

[824] Unlike the Rabbanites, who were the major group among the 
Jewish people, the Karaites conducted vigorous propaganda in favour of 
immigration to Palestine. Those verses I cited from the book of Isaiah, ‘I 
have set watchmen upon thy walls’, etc. (Is., lxii:6), were used as the 
slogan for this propaganda. Early Karaite literature, especially in the tenth 
century, is full of calls to their brethren in the east, living mainly in Persian 
districts, to rise and ‘go up’ to Jerusalem. ‘And if you do not come’ says 
Daniel al-QumisI, ‘send from every city five people with their upkeep for 
... always to plead to our God on the mountains of Jerusalem as it is 
written . . . upon thy walls, O Jerusalem, etc.’. In a similar manner, 

96 Joshua: 104; cf. Friedman, Sinai, 74(1973/4), 20, n. 3, on the custom of leaving a 
conditional divorce with the wife, if the husband does not return by a set date; see TS 10 J 
28, f. 9, 1. 23, edited by Friedman, Tarbiz, 40(1970/71), 356ff: ‘(until he will write her a 
get) zeman’; the reconstruction is by the editor, who explains: get zeman means a con¬ 
ditional divorce; see also Sha'are sedeq, ch. ii. No. 11 '... and if he does not come by the 
fixed time (zeman) then this becomes a divorce’; see also ULC Or 1080 J 22 and the 
translation in Goitein, Letters, 315-319; cf. idem, Mediterranean Society, I, 61. Hiba: 425; it 
seems that Hiba al-Ba$ri eventually divorced his wife in Fustat, Hasana daughter of 
Sahlan, and married the daughter of‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, who mentions him in his 
letter, 455, lines 19, 26 (15 April 1071); this time he went to Fustat and left hisjerusalemite 
wife and children with her father, who is having difficulties maintaining them; cf. Goitein, 
Mediterranean Society, III, 198. (In my article: Gil, Cathedra 8[1977/8], 128, there is an error: 
Hiba al-Misri should be al-Basri.) Sedaqa: 318; Baward was in Khurasan, that is, we have 
here a family whose father (‘Eli) was a Damascene who migrated to Khurasan while the 
son Sedaqa came from there to Fustat and thence to Ramla. The letter of Solomon b. 
Judah: 54; cf. the matter of a woman who refuses to go after her husband to Palestine: 
Tosejia, Ketubbot, xiii:2 (Zuckerm. 275):. . if he wants to come to Palestine and she does 
not want, one forces her to go’; in the Babylonian Talmud, Ket., 110b this Baraita is 
quoted somewhat differently; and one can see that they did not enact this rule; later 
commentaries note that this rule applied only to the times of the Temple, Daniel b. 
Azariah: 377. The Byzantine group: 479. The man of Narbonne: 465, a, line 21. Tiberias: 
247. Elijah ha-Kohen: 418; Prof. Goitein, in his letter to me dated 31 January 1979, 
remarked that Elijah ha-Kohen certainly recalled the saying: eat basel (onions) and sit ba-sel 
(in the shade; BT, Pes. 104a). 


617 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


Abu’l-Surrl Sahl ha-Kohen b. Masllah says: ‘gather ye to the Holy City 
and gather in your brethren for at present you are a nation which does not 
long for its Father in Heaven . . . and know brethren that Jerusalem is now 
a wilderness ... yearning for its scattered children . . . and let there come 
one of a city and tw r o of a family . . . elders and youths . . . but you are idle 
and sleeping on your beds . , . while Jerusalem is crying out for its 
children’. In his epistle to Jacob b. Samuel, he says in praise of the Karaite 
propaganda for immigrating to Palestine: blessed be the Karaite leaders 
‘who because of their good chastisement and letters to their brethren, the 
righteous and the pious have assembled injerusalem, may it be rebuilt and 
re-established speedily in our own day, and set up watches to pray day and 
night’, etc. And so praised be the Karaite immigrants: ‘who left their 
trades and forgot their families and rejected the lands of their birth ... set 
aside their fine clothes and wore sacks, sighing and moaning ... may God 
keep his promise to comfort those that mourn in Zion, to give them 
beauty’ (Is., lxi:3). Referring to the Karaite immigrants, Ycfet b. ‘All 
expounds on the verse ‘as the hart panteth after the water brooks, so 
panteth my soul after thee, O God’. (Ps., xlii:2): ‘the maskiltm who came 
from the diaspora to Jerusalem, for which they panteth’ ( masktltm , ‘the 
understanding ones’ in the book of Daniel, is an appellation often used by 
the Karaites for themselves). 97 

[825] Until the days of Daniel al-QumisI, Karaites did not settle in 
Palestine. The call issued by him and again by his successors to come to 
Palestine bore fruit, and thus the Karaite quarter arose in Jerusalem, newly 
built outside the wall. According to their own tradition, the Karaites 
began to immigrate in about the middle of the ninth century, after Benja¬ 
min al-Nihawandl’s time. According to Salmon b. Yeruhim, those who 
participated in the immigration were ‘people from the east and the west 
... who decided to settle injerusalem, and so they left their safe havens 
and lands of their birth . . . and now they sit in Palestine ... for they are the 
shoshamm'. In continuation, the Karaite writer identifies them with the 
mourners of Zion, according to Ps., lxix: 11-12: ‘When I wept and 
chastened my soul with fasting, that was to my reproach. I made sackcloth 
also of my garment’. We also find in his work a vision of ever-increasing 
Karaite immigration, and he interprets ‘the shaking of an olive tree’ (Is., 
xvii:6): ‘I gather that they are people who congregate in Jerusalem to 
worship [God]; though they are few, they will gradually increase in 

57 Daniel al-QCmiisi: Bodl MS Heb d 36, fs. 13, 16; Sahl b. Masllah; in Harkavy, Me’assef, 13, 
197f; and in Pinsker, Liqqute qadmdniydt, II, 30f. One should note that the sermonising is 
directed towards the Karaites and not to all the Jews; as to the remark of Ben Shammai, 
Cathedra, 5(1977/8), 145, that the epistle does not advocate immigration to Palestine, one 
should point out that the epistle is addressed to the Rabbanites; and at any rate, it does 
contain praise of the Karaite immigration. Yefet b. ‘All: MS Paris 287, fol, 2a. See more 


6i8 



‘ALIYA AND PILGRIMAGE [SECS. 819-834] 

number, and afterwards the remnant will appear . . . and the division 
within the nation will cease’. And further (on Is., lxvi:10: ‘Rejoice ye with 
Jerusalem ... all ye that mourn for her’): ‘And none mourn over her but 
those who desire her rebuilding’; ‘how much more so should we mourn 
and eulogise and lament over our souls and the weight of our sins and 
iniquities and might of our transgressions and the extent of our exile’. And 
in his commentary on Eccl., v:9 (‘Moreover the profit of the earth is for us 
all: the king himself is served by the field’), he even seems to be advocating 
going over to a rural life: ‘and they shall not be turned away from their 
worship [of God] by goods, but they shall sow seeds and rely upon the 
Creator. For whoever buys himself land is insured against any circum¬ 
stance . .. just as our forefathers, Abraham Isaac and Jacob, may they rest 
in peace, were sowers and herdsmen, they trusted and relied on the 
merciful one, may He be exalted’. He says similar things in his com¬ 
mentary on Eccl., v:12 (‘the sleep of a labouring man is sweet, whether he 
eat little or much: but the abundance of the rich will not suffer him to 
sleep’). 

Shoshamm (lilies), and mourners of Zion, was what the Karaites called 
themselves. Shoshamm, according to ‘to the chief musician upon shosha¬ 
mm’ in the Psalms (xlv:l). A tradition ascribed to the Rabbanites by Eliah 
b. Abraham, author of the liillticj ha-qara’lm we-harabhamm, claimed that the 
Karaites’ immigration began in the days of ‘Anan, which has no foun¬ 
dation or basis anywhere unless the tradition is referring to ‘Anan II. 98 

[826] The designation ‘mourners of Zion’ derives from the Bible (Is., 
lxi:2—3): ‘to comfort all who mourn. To appoint unto them that mourn in 
Zion, to give unto them beauty’. Daniel al-QumisI uses the designation in 
speaking of the Karaites, and in the tenth century, in addition to its use by 
Salmon b. Yeruhim, it is used by Sahl b. Masllah: ‘how long will you stay 
idle... whereas your brethren, the mourners, do not stay still either night 
or day, when they see the coffins of the dead being brought to the site 
where God’s ark was standing’. And Yefet b. ‘All, in his commentary of 
‘the voice of the turtle is heard in our land’ (Song of Sol., ii:2) ‘he meant by 
this the captains of justice and mourners of Zion who come from the 
diaspora to Palestine and withdraw to study and pray and plead ceaselessly 
and do not set this aside until they can see their redemption’. QirqisanI 
writes in his book on the Karaites’ ceaseless prayer shifts ( mashatmr) which 

quotations from Karaite commentaries which repeat the homily on the abovementioned 
verses from Isaiah: Wieder, Judean Scrolls, lOOff. 

98 See the text of Salmon b. Yeruhim, in his commentary to Ps., lxix:l, Marwick ed., 98. 
‘The shaking of an olive tree’: his commentary to Lam., MS Paris 295, 48a; see his 
Commentary on Lamentations (Feuerstein), XXXI, XLIII; shoshamm , apart from the com¬ 
mentaries, see: Salmon b. Yeruhim, Sefer ha-milhamot, 57; his commentary to Eccl., 
v:8—11, BM Or 2517. The hilluq, see in Pinsker, Liqqiite qadmoniyot, II. 104, cf. Poznanski, 


619 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


continued throughout the day and night, to fulfil the prophet’s words ‘I 
have set watchmen upon thy walls, etc.’. But it is interesting that this 
writer, who has left us the description of the Karaites nearest the assumed 
historical truth, is alone in not using the expression ‘mourners of Zion’ at 
all. In the text of Sahl b. Masllah, we also find the most authentic evidence 
on the part of a contemporary, of the congregation of Karaite mourners 
from various countries in the Karaite quarter ofjerusalem: ‘and you shall 
know, brethren, that Jerusalem at this time is the haven of every fugitive 
and the comfort of every mourner, and within its gates, worshippers of 
the Almighty are gathered, one from a city and two from a family. And 
within, there are women who lament and bemoan in Hebrew, in Persian 
and in the language of Ishmael’. 99 

[827] In the eleventh century too, we find evidence of this characteristic 
element in Karaite preaching and even of the existence of Karaite ‘mourn¬ 
ers’ ( avelitn). Ha-she’elot ha-‘atlqdt (‘the ancient questions’), a rhymed trea¬ 
tise evidently written in the first half of the century, contains a rhyming 
and mocking description of the endless mourning practices of the Ka¬ 
raites. Some generations earlier, Salmon b. Yeruhim had already com¬ 
plained that the Rabbanites were ridiculing the Karaite mourners of Zion. 
At about the same time, AhTma'as wrote his scroll and the ‘mourners of 
Zion’ are mentioned there. Samuel b. Palti’el donated money, he says, also 

Yerushalayim (Luncz), 10 (1913/4), 85ff. See on Eliah b. Abraham and his treatise: Poz- 
nanski, JQR, 20(1908), 80f. 

99 See Daniel al-Qumisf ‘to the maskilim, the mourners of Zion’, in Marmorstein, Zion 
(ha-me’assef), 3(1928/9), 39, line 10;seeiWd., 27f, explanations of the designation‘mourn¬ 
ers of Zion’. See further what Daniel al-Qumisi says ibid., 28: ‘for in the diaspora there are 
priests who mourn and lament over Jerusalem’; ‘to convey tidings to individuals, to the 
mourners who strictly observe the message of God’; ibid., 37, line 19: ‘... the maskilim of 
Israel, who are outstanding among them and mourn permanently, mourning for Jerusa¬ 
lem, by fasting and putting on sackcloth and ashes, and become ascetics’, etc.; see his 
interpretation of Lev., xxiii:27 (‘on the tenth day of this seventh month there shall be a day 
of atonement’), in Ginzberg, Ginze Schechter, II, 485f: ‘... to torment oneself for the sake 
of God ... to refrain from eating and drinking ... to change clothes for sackcloth and 
ashes, and to weep aloud until one faints’. Yefet b. ‘Ali: his commentary to the Song of 
Solomon, BM Or 2520, 56b. See QirqisanI, 919, on the shifts; cf. Wieder, Judean Scrolls, 
99. Sahl b. Masllah: Harkavy, Me’assef, No. 13, 198f, 203. See the article by Gartner, who 
deals with the possible influence of the Karaite ‘mourners of Zion’ on the severity of the 
9th of Av among the Babylonian geonim, in Sefer ha-shdna (Bar-Ilan), 20(1983), 128ff. Itis 
also worth noting the remarks of the student of Eastern Christianity, Voobus, History, II, 
34: in the Syriac translation of Eusebius’ Ecclesiastic Chronicle the term ‘mourners’ means 
‘monks’. In his opinion, this translation was already written before the first half of the 
fourth century. He mentions what is said in the BT, Bava batra, 60b (dealing with customs 
of mourning the destruction of the Temple, where ‘mourners of Zion in Jerusalem’ are 
mentioned, as in Is., lxi:3) and what Benjamin ofTudelasays (see the Adler ed., p. 26) and 
he arrives at conclusions about the Jewish influence on the Christian monastic movement. 
One can hardly agree with him on this; it seems that perhaps the very opposite is true; that 
the terminology of the Karaites may have been influenced by the Nestorian ambiance in 
the East. 


620 



‘ALIYA AND PILGRIMAGE [SECS. 819-834] 

to ‘the poor mourners of the Temple, those who grieve on Zion and 
mourn’. Did this Samuel contribute money to the Karaites? There is no 
reason to believe that this is so, nor can one conclude that the use of the 
designation ‘the mourners of Zion’, a Biblical expression, was forbidden 
among the Rabbanites. It is true that the Karaites turned it into an estab¬ 
lished formula, as we can see from the description of the miracle that befell 
the Jews of Ramla: a decree that was to have been imposed on them was 
cancelled owing to a joint fast of the Rabbanites and the Karaites, after they 
appealed to one avel - ‘mourner’. It emerges, then, that there were individ¬ 
uals among the Karaites in Palestine who were called aveltm, ‘mourners’, 
who evidently belonged to the elite of the sect, and one can assume that 
they were recognisable from their dress and their daily mourning 
customs. 

From the letters of Karaites in my collection, it is clear that Karaite 
immigration to Palestine also continued into the eleventh century. Nathan 
b. Isaac was one of those who reached Jerusalem from Egypt and he writes 
to his teacher there, Solomon b. David al-‘Arishl (evidently from al-‘ Arish 
in Palestine). Moses b. Isaac, some of whose letters in his characteristic 
handwriting have been preserved, was also an immigrant from Fustat. 
According to the pronouncement he makes in every letter, that he prays 
day and night (in shifts!) alongside the gates of the Temple Mount, it is 
obvious that his congregation sent him there and supported him, just as 
the Karaite scholars of the tenth century prescribed. One of his letters was 
written to two brothers, Isaac and Benjamin, sons of Joseph of Warjlan. 
Their brother Moses lived in Jerusalem for many years and died there one 
year prior to the writing of the letter in 1038. The writer of the letter, 
Moses b. Isaac, gives the brothers some details about the deceased: his first 
wife had died and he married again, and he had a son (who is in Egypt) and 
three daughters, two of whom live in Jerusalem. The elder, Rachel, lives 
in Ramla and is married and has two daughters, and the writer turned over 
to her the four dinars sent by the two brothers to their brother in Jerusa¬ 
lem, who has died in the interim. Moses b. Isaac was not a native of 
Warjlan, it seems, but apparendy lived there and became acquainted with 
the Karaite sect at the time. The letter also mentions the intention of the 
two brothers of Warjlan to immigrate to Jerusalem themselves. 

Impressive evidence of Karaite immigration from Spain is to be found in 
a letter (which I have already mentioned) of Simon b. Saul b. Israel 
al-Tulaytuli, written in 1057 injerusalem to his sister Balluta in Tulaytula. 
It contains an account of Karaites from Toledo, Abraham b. Fadanj and 
Abraham b. al-Harum (that is, ‘the son of the Kohen’), who reached 
Jerusalem via Byzantium, stayed at first in Ramla and afterwards settled in 
Jerusalem. (The account itself has some interesting details concerning 


621 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

Karaite marriage restrictions and their situation injerusalem, which I shall 
discuss later on.) 

To sum up, we can state that we find among the Karaites of the tenth 
and eleventh centuries both the idea of immigration and the process of 
enacting the idea which became reality. Karaite writers, and particularly 
the commentators on the Bible, headed this immigration in the tenth 
century, and as we shall see below, the eleventh century Geniza docu¬ 
ments also contain evidence of spiritual leaders of the Karaites, such as 
Tobiah b. Moses and Yeshu'a b. Judah, who stayed in Palestine and also 
settled there. 100 

[828] We have a great deal of evidence on Jewish pilgrimages from 
various countries. The time for pilgrimages was mainly in Tishri, in 
anticipation of the Feast of the Tabernacles, as in the days of the Temple. 
Ahima‘as, of southern Italy - that is, within the Byzantine framework - 
‘went up’ to Jerusalem three times, and on each occasion, brought 100 
zehuvTm (dinars) with him. The pilgrims were called hdgegttn, probably 
influenced by the Arabic liajj, which is its etymological parallel. Samuel b. 
Isaac, the Spaniard, writes to Shemaria b. Elhanan in Fustat, at the begin- 

100 ‘The ancient questions’: Scheiber, HUCA, 27(1956), 299f. The complaint of Salmon b. 
Yeruhim, cf. Zucker, Albeck Jubilee Volume, 384. Megillat Ahima'as (Klar), 37, where it is 
vocalised: we-ha-mishkattim, which is not acceptable, but should be we-ha-miskentm ‘and 
the poor ones’; Mann’s assumption in Jews, I, 49, n. 2., that we-ha-maskilim was originally 
written there, has no foundation, for in the manuscript it explicitly says we-ha-miskenm, 
see film No. 7359 in the Institute of Microfilmed Hebrew MSS injerusalem (Mann was 
followed by Zucker, in Albeck Jubilee Volume, 385); the general view of Mann, that in 
pesiqdtd Rabbati and in Megillat Ahima'as,, a sect, or a movement, are meant by avelesiyon, is 
unfounded. Implicitly he seems to have assumed that it first started among the Rabba- 
nites, from whom the Karaites adopted it, which is again void of any proof. See the 
episode of the avel: 313. See the list of references to the term ‘mourners of Zion’ in Sefer 
ha-yisltuv, 115f: in the afternoon prayer for the 9th of Av; in Pesiqata Rabbati ; in the book 
Haldkhot qesuvot ascribed to Yehudai Gaon. See the discussion in Zucker, Albeck Jubilee 
Volume, 378ff. What he wrote on the positive attitude of the Rabbanites towards the 
Karaite ‘mourners of Zion’ is not proven, and the sources he quotes use this designation 
without referring to the Karaites at all. Similarly unfounded are the comments of 
Grossman, Cathedra, 8(1977/8), 143, who also attempts to prove that there were also 
Rabbanite ‘mourners of Zion’. Nathan b. Isaac: 297; the letters of Moses b. Isaac: 
298-301, in the first of which the matter of the brothers from Warjlan figures; see Assaf, 
Meqdrot, 49, on Warjlan and on the Karaites there (at a later period). The fragment TS AS 
167.129 is also in the handwriting of Moses b. Isaac; it is possible to decipher there the 
expression devir mequddash (‘the sanctified Temple’) and other expressions he was wont to 
use in his letters, such as: quddam hadha’I-bayt al-mubarak (‘in front of this blessed house’); 
twice al-nasial-jalil (‘the noble nasi’) is mentioned there, by which he undoubtedly means 
the nasi of the Karaites in Egypt. In 300a, there are the usual ornate phrases about praying 
injerusalem and on the gates of the Temple, and he complains of his distress which is due 
to the fact that he does not work to earn a living but prays all the time. 300b, is also in his 
handwriting and was written for a certain Abraham b. Jacob, evidently also a Karaite 
living injerusalem, to the latter's son in Fustat. Abraham ibn Ezra’s mention of‘the 
heretics in Warjlan’ is interesting: (as it should be read: to Ex., xii: 10); cf. also Hirschberg, 
Sinai Jubilee Volume, 344f. Simon b. Saul: 457, a, lines 29ff. Cf. Ashtor, Qordt, II, 141, 


622 



‘ALIYA AND PILGRIMAGE [SECS. 819-834] 

ning of the eleventh century (before 1010), incidentally describing his 
meeting with a proselyte injerusalem: ‘and after coming from Damascus 
to Egypt, I went to the Holy City, where I found him, for he had gone up 
to it with our brethren who went from Damascus to carry out the 
pilgrimage ( Idhog ) there’. 

The first to ‘go up’ to Jerusalem in the month of Tishri were naturally 
the Palestinians themselves. It seems that during one such pilgrimage, a 
quarrel broke out in the synagogue between people from Tyre and Tib¬ 
erias, which is described by Hasan b. Mu’ammal in a letter written for him 
by ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, on 27 September 1052. They had to bring the 
sahib al-shurta (the police commander) to the synagogue. People from 
distant Khurasan also reached Jerusalem, as can be seen from Abraham b. 
Solomon b. Judah’s letter to Ephraim b. Shemaria, in which he asks for 
help for a man of Khurasan, Samuel b. Sahl; the latter having brought with 
him a letter from Saadia b. Moses, of Seville, whom he evidently met 
somewhere en route. Zadok ha-Levi b. Levi writes about Rawh ha-Kohen 
the cantor b. Pinhas, who ‘was exiled from the exile of Babylonia [! - 
undoubtedly a distortion: gala (went into exile) instead of ‘aid (ascended, 
i.e. immigrated) to Palestine] to prostrate himself in Jerusalem and was 
lucky to go on a pilgrimage in the previous year’. There were those who 
came to Palestine in order to make a pilgrimage to Jerusalem and to pray 
and to conduct business, all at the same time. Ramla was their base for 
conducting business affairs, and from there they would go up to Jerusalem 
for the Days of Awe and the Feast of the Tabernacles. This is described in 
detail by Abraham, son of the Gaon, who refers to the most important of 
the Maghribis to have come from Ramla to Jerusalem: Abu’l-Khayr b. 
al-Tahirti, who is pronounced haver (he is Moses b. Abraham - Musa b. 
Barhun). Masliah b. Eliah, who is Masllah b. Basaq, dayyan of Sicily, is 
involved with claims of the Baradanf brothers of Tyre and stays in Ramla 
in this connection, and seems to have been on a pilgrimage at the time, 
although he may have actually settled in Palestine after the disturbing 
events in Sicily in the mid-eleventh century. We also encounter Karaite 
pilgrimages. David b. Hayyun, a Karaite from Tripoli in Libya was such a 
pilgrim and he writes to the Karaite leader there and thanks him for the aid 
sent him through the writer’s nephew Isma‘U, and promises to pray for 
him on the Mount of Olives and on the Gates of Mercy and sends greetings 
to the entire congregation. Mahbub b. Nissim the cantor, a Maghribi 
Karaite, describes his pilgrimage in a letter to a certain Abu’l-Faraj in 
Fustat. After portraying the vicissitudes of the journey and his losses, he 

referring to the Ibn Fadanj family, which is mentioned in the thirteenth century: docu¬ 
ments signed by Solomon b. Fadanq (1205); a matter of property belonging to Isaac b. 

Fadanq (1254). 


623 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

announces that he has decided to stay in Palestine when his ship reaches 
Jaffa. He stayed in Jerusalem from 1 Kislev until the middle of Tevet. 101 

[829] Nasir Khusraw notes that many Christians and Jews come on 
pilgrimages to Palestine from regions of Byzantium and other countries, 
in order'to visit ‘the church’ ( kalisa) and the synagogue ( kunisht ). I have 
already mentioned the advantage thejews had over the Christians, in that 
they did not have to pay a tax in order to enter Jerusalem, for the taxes paid 
by thejews ofjerusalem also gave thejewish pilgrims the right to enter the 
city. There were undoubtedly Jewish pilgrims from Europe as well, 
though little has reached us on the subject. Above, I have referred to one 
such pilgrim, Yeda‘ya of Narbonne. What Jonah ibnjanah writes in the 
first half of the eleventh century in the Sefer ha-riqmd about a Jerusalem 
book which ‘Mr Jacob ha-hogeg hlywny brought us from Bet ha-miqdash 
[Jerusalem] which was in his own handwriting’ should actually be read 
ha-lfwam, that is, ‘the pilgrim, the Levite’, for this is what they used to call 
the Levites. Hence he was not a man from Leon in Spain or from Lyons in 
France. There is also a letter of recommendation from the community of 
Salonika to a man ‘from the community of Rusiyah’, evidently Russia, 
who wanted to make a pilgrimage, probably from the thirteenth century 
(as opposed to Mann’s assumption that it was ‘certainly’ from the eleventh 
century). 

It was common practice in times of distress to make a vow to make a 
pilgrimage to Jerusalem and pray there for deliverance. A pilgrim in 
similar circumstances, evidently from a Christian land, writes to the 
community in Alexandria after his ship sank near the coast of their city; he 
was miraculously saved, and was in hiding from the authorities who had 
imposed a high tax on him : hence ‘I have made a vow to go to Jerusalem ’. 

101 The scroll of Alum,i'.is (Klar), 15. Samuel b. Isaac: ULC Or 1080 J 115. IJasan b. 
Mu’ammal: 436 . Another such Palestinian pilgrim was evidently Boaz the cantor b. 
David, of Baniyas, who signed as witness on a deed in Ramla on 17 October 1056, at the 
court of Daniel b. Azariah; see 391 , lines 21, 27 (his signature in Ramla), and 608 , line 34 
(his signature in Baniyas, on 11 July of the same year); cf. Braslavi, Le-heqer, 74, n. 5. 
Khurasan: 138 , line 20; Mann read Khayrawan and assumed that it was Qayrawan, see: 
Jews, 1, 102; and following him Hirschberg, Eretz Israel , 5(1958/9), 217, n. 35, who finds 
here an example of the connections between Palestine and the Maghrib. Rawh ha-Kohen: 
212 , lines 26f. Moses al-TahirtT: 141 , lines 2, 4-5. There seems to be some truth in a 
fragment of Sefer hasidim (169, No. 630) on Hayy Gaon, who would ‘go up’ tojerusalem 
on the Feast of Tabernacles (every year! - which is undoubtedly highly exaggerated), and 
would participate in going round the Mount of Olives seven times, and preceding him 
were the kohamm (of the family of the Gaon Samuel ha-Kohen b. Joseph?); ibid, also 
contains a strange story on a conversation in Jerusalem between Hayy Gaon and a 
criminal; cf. Epstein, MGWJ, 47(1903), 342f. Ben-Sasson, Zion, 51(1986), 396-399, finds 
in this story and in the mention of the kohamm, echoes of the epistle of Hayy Gaon ‘to the 
unruly kohamm oflfrlqiya’ (see: Lewin, Ginze qedem, 4[1929/30], 51-56). He assumes that 
the source of the story lay in Hayy Gaon’s opposition to the family of kohamm who took 
over the Palestinian yeshiva in the eleventh century, descendants ofjoseph ha-Kohen b. 


624. 



‘ALIYA AND PILGRIMAGE [SECS. 819-834] 

Above, we have seen the story of Israel b. Nathan, who made a vow to 
stay in Jerusalem should he be saved from a Byzantine jail. A calamity 
befell Moses b. Abraham (the aforementioned Musa b. Bahun) al-Tahirtl, 
a relative of Nehorai b. Nissim, when the son of the family died. In view of 
this tragedy, Moses he-haver b. Jacob he-haver, a Maghribi ofjerusalem, 
writes to Nehorai b. Nissim that the days of mourning would be the most 
appropriate time to come on a pilgrimage. In another letter, the same 
Moses b. Jacob tells of how much of an effort he is making to prepare 
proper housing for Musa b. Barhun al-Tahirti in anticipation of his 
pilgrimage. He considered renting the same apartment for him in which 
he had stayed himself when he had come on pilgrimage previously, but in 
the meantime it had been let to someone else. Hence, he has rented another 
apartment for Musa and keeps it for him even though he is tarrying so long 
and the apartment stands empty. 

Barhun al-Tahirtl assures Nehorai, after he arrives in Jerusalem, that he 
carefully fulfils his promises to him every day — by which he means that he 
says prayers for him, particularly that a son should be born to him, and for 
this reason, he also intends to go to the ‘graves of the patriarchs’, that is to 
Hebron. Some hundred years earlier, Sahl b. Masliah ridiculed the Rabba- 
nites for a similar practice: ‘they are idolaters ... sitting at the graves . .. 
pleading with the dead and saying: Oh, Rabbi Yose ha—Gelili! heal me, 
make me pregnant.’ 102 

[830] At times, the pilgrims would describe in their letters something of 
their experiences and life in Jerusalem. Solomon b. Moses SafaqusI writes 
enthusiastically to Nehorai b. Nissim on 26 December 1059 about the 
view of the Holy City; he also mentions the snowstorm they encountered 
on the way tojerusalem. Tojudge by his description, it seems to have been 
a particularly hard winter that year, with endless rain and snow. He also 
says that in order to get chickens, he had to go down to Ramla. It is 


Menahem; cf. also Bornstein, SokolowJubilee Volume, 175f. Masliah b. Eliah: 426. David 
b. Hayyun: 290. Mahbub: 292. 

102 Nasir Khusraw {text), 20; (translation), 66f; cf. Starr, Jews, 197 (No. 142). Jonah ibn 
Janah, Sefer ba-riqmd, I, 338; cf in the Hebrew Index: ‘Eli b. Joseph, al-parnas al-LIwanl; 
and Sefer ha-yishuv, 39, n. 29. The Russian: Bodl (Cat.) 2862 No. 26, fs. 71b-72a, edited 
by Marmorstein, REJ, 73(1921), 94f and by Mann, Jews, II, 192, and see the note of 
Goitein in the Preface, ibid.', also ‘the placard of a Jerusalem pilgrim’ of Abraham b. Judah 
the Spaniard ‘from the city of Jfan’, TS Box K 21, f. 9, edited by Eliash, Sejunot, 
2(1957/8), 24, in a handwriting that seems to be from the thirteenth century, and not from 
the eleventh century, as stated ibid. , 10, The vow: 403; also edited by Assaf, Meqdrdt, 59f 
see line 3; this pilgrim requests aid from the Alexandria community, and it is not clear 
why Assaf assumed that it was referring to a locality near Alexandria; see ibid., lines 
16-17: ‘I wrote this letter to be my mouth, for I do not know your language’, from which 
one may assume that he was from a Christian country (as Assaf also assumed). Moses 
he-haver: 460, a, lines 22ff; 461, lines 16ff Only 1053). Barhun al-Tahirtl to Nehorai: 458, 
a, lines 25ff; b, line 10. Sahl b. Masliah: Pinsker, Liqqute qadmoniyot, II, 32. 


625 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

interesting to note that some of the pilgrims’ letters, such as this latter one, 
show that pilgrimages were not restricted to the holiday season but that 
pilgrims went up to Jerusalem at any time the possibility arose, even 
during the winter. This may also have been due to the fact that the 
merchants were less occupied with their business during the winter, as 
there was no possibili ty of travelling by sea then. 

Nehorai b. Nissim also made a pilgrimage to Jerusalem, which we learn 
of in the letter from Salama b. Nissim b. Isaac, writing to him from Busir, 
the flax centre in Egypt: ‘and you noted [in your letter] the matter of your 
return from Jerusalem, may it be rebuilt... and your coming to Fustat. .. 
may the Almighty God gladly accept your pilgrimage and show you and 
us Jerusalem rebuilt’. In a fragment of a letter whose writer is unknown, 
addressed to a cousin (on the mother’s side: ‘daughter of my mother’s 
sister’, bint khdlatt) we read: ‘Almighty God may grant that you go up to 
Jerusalem and see the tomb of Eleazar [?], the gates of mercy and the place 
of the altar and the Mount of Olives and Rachel’s tomb, may she rest in 
peace, and the graves of our ancestors, may they rest in peace’, and so 
on. 103 

[831] The Mount of Olives was the centre for congregating and praying 
during pilgrimages in the month of Tishri. Some thought that the reason 
for this was the gradual exclusion of the Jews from the Temple Mount. 
However, it seems that the practice of gathering on the Mount of Olives 
had earlier roots. In Talmudic literature, we already find the description of 
the passing of the Shekhina (Divine Presence) from the Temple Mount to 
the Mount of Olives: ‘R. Yohanan said: for three years and a half the 
Shekhina stayed continuously on the Mount of Olives, and was crying out 
three times a day, and proclaiming as follows’, and so on. The idea of 
considering the Divine Presence as residing on the Mount of Olives is 
anchored in the homilies of Talmudic literature concerning verse xi:23 in 
the book of Ezekiel: ‘And the glory of the Lord went up from the midst of 
the city, and stood upon the mountain which is on the east side of the city. ’ 
In Karaite commentaries as well, we find similar interpretations. This is 
how Salmon b. Yeruhim interprets the verse: ‘this means that from the 
eastern gate it moved to the city and from the city to the Mount of Olives 
and from the Mount of Olives passed to the gates of Paradise, as it is 
written: I will go and return to my place’ (Hos., v:15). During the period 
under discussion, we find the most ancient evidence ofjews praying on the 
Mount of Olives in the letter of the Palestinian Gaon to the Babylonians, at 
the time of the dispute over the calendar: ‘and we blessed you on the 
Mount of Olives opposite God’s Temple’; ‘we pray for you very often, 

103 Solomon b. Moses: 490 . Salama: TS 12.793, lines 5ff; the formula of the blessing is 

certainly influenced by what was accepted among the Muslims. The letter to the cousin: 


626 



'ALIYA AND PILGRIMAGE [SECS. 819-834] 

and also for your honoured elders, on the Mount of Olives, opposite 
God’s Temple, the place which served as the foot-stool for our God’. In 
the same vein,Josiah Gaon writes, to Nethanel b. Aaron, about a hundred 
years later: ‘our prayers and blessings are always for you in Jerusalem and 
on the Mount of Olives during the holidays among all the congregations 
of our brethren Israel’. In around 1029, Solomon b. Judah writes that in 
Jerusalem they would persevere in mentioning the communities in Fustat 
( Misrayim ), and especially in mentioning the name of Ephraim b. Shema- 
ria ‘among the entire congregation and on every holiday and on the Mount 
of Olives’. In a letter to Sahlan b. Abraham in ca. 1035, he mentions going 
up to the Mount of Olives ‘singing’, as well as the gathering there during 
the holidays: ‘and their ascent to the Mount of Olives in song, and their 
stance there facing the Temple of God on the holidays, the place of the 
Divine Presence, his strength and footstool’. In another letter to Ephraim 
b. Shemaria, he notes that benedictions were said for Ephraim (on the 
Mount of Olives) on ‘the day of hosha'na' , and in yet another letter the 
ascent to the Mount of Olives on hosha'na rahha (the seventh day of the 
Feast of Tabernacles) is described. 104 

[832] In a letter from the yeshiva, evidently written in 1057, we find 
similar details: the tax which the Jews of Jerusalem pay entitles them ‘to 
encircle the gates and stand on the Mount of Olives praying out loud’; ‘also 
in the lesser temple [undoubtedly the synagogue] also on the Mount of 
Olives in the congregation of our brethren of the House of Israel in the 
month of Tishri’; ‘this is the place we pray in on the holidays facing God’s 
Temple on the day of hosha'na and there benedictions are said for all the 
House of Israel’; the contributors to the welfare of Jerusalem shall merit 
being mentioned during the gathering on the Mount of Olives. In the 
letter it says that at the time of the Muslim conquest (‘when they stretched 
out their hands and took Palestine from the Edomites’) thejews came ‘and 
bought the Mount of Olives, where the Divine Presence stood, as is 
written: And the glory of the Lord’, etc. ‘For three years it has been 
proclaiming as follows: turn, O ye backsliding children (Ez., iii:14), but 
they turned a cold shoulder and did not hear or listen; and then He said: I 
will go and return to my place’ etc. This matter of‘buying’ the Mount of 
Olives should naturally be understood as acquiring the right, or obtaining 
an agreement. A few years after this letter, ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel writes 

TS AS 162.167, lines 8ff. There is no absolute certainty that it is from the eleventh 

century; on the verso, one can see the name Abu’l-Fadl, perhaps the name of the writer. 
104 Cf. the article of Hirschberg, BJPES, 13(1946/7): 156. See the saying of R. Yohanan: 

Pesiqata de-R. Kahana (Buber 2 ), 103a, and see the notes to the text ibid.. Nos. 103-105; 

(Mandelbaum), 234; BT, Rosh hash. 31a; cf. Urbach, Sages, 54f, andn. 65; see Avot de-R. 

Nathan (Schechter), ch. xxxiv (p. 102) and the editor’s notes 33 and 38. Salmon b. 

Yeruhim, Commentary to Lamentations (Feuerstein), XXI. See the letter of the Palestinian 


627 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

from Jerusalem to ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim in Fustat, that he prays for 
him while going around the gates of the Temple Mount and on the Mount 
of Olives, the place of the Divine Presence. There is no question but that 
the month of Tishri, the time for pilgrimages and gathering on the Mount 
of Olives, was the most important time of the year, and a month of 
considerable activity and bustle for the people of the yeshiva. Evidence of 
this can be seen in a letter from Israel b. Nathan to his cousin Nehorai b. 
Nissim, written from Jerusalem in October 1059, in which he apologises 
for not having been able to get a responsum from the Gaon on a query on a 
halakhic matter from Nehorai; the Gaon was not free during the month of 
Tishri, ‘because all his activities are in that month’. As one could see from 
the commentary of Salmon b. Yeruhim quoted above, the Karaites also 
maintained the custom of going up to the Mount of Olives and indeed, 
Sahl b. Masliah also mentions the ascent. I have already mentioned the 
cheese made by the Karaites ‘produced on the Mount of Olives’. In his 
letter, the Karaite David b. Hayyun speaks of his prayers while going up to 
the Mount of Olives. 

I have already discussed the matter of the proclamation of the calendrical 
order and the fact that this was done on the Mount of Olives, the first 
mention of which we find in the literature dealing with the quarrel over the 
calendar. The custom of the gathering of the Jews on the last day of the 
Feast of Tabernacles was well known. Al-Blrunl, who was a contempo¬ 
rary of Solomon b. Judah, knew that ‘the last day of the holiday of 
Succoth, that is the seventh day of the holiday and the 21st day of the 
month, is called ‘araja (he means, of course, ‘arava), on the day the quails 
were over the heads of the banii isra’tl in the desert and on which the 
holiday of the congregation falls, because on that day the Jews gather on 
the har hard in Jerusalem as pilgrims and they walk around the urun [the 
ark] which is in their synagogues, which is like the minbar [of the 
Muslims]’. Mas'udI, who lived about a hundred years earlier, during the 
first half of the tenth century, also notes that the Mount of Olives faces the 
qibla (the direction faced during prayers) of the Jews, exactly in the way it 
is described in the writings of the Jews, that it is ‘opposite the Temple’. 
Contrary to this, Ibn al-Faqih (in the latter half of the ninth century) does 
not mention Jews in connection with the Mount of Olives, but does state 
that situated on its peak is a mosque built by ‘Umar at the time of the 
conquest (which is not mentioned in any other source) and a church, from 
which Jesus ascended to heaven. As to Abu Bakr ibn al-‘ArabI, the 
Spaniard who stayed in Jerusalem but a few years before the Crusaders’ 
conquest, the thing which he found interesting there was the ‘table’, that 

Gaon in Bornstein, Sokolow Jubilee Volume , 63, 107. Josiah Gaon: 32 . Solomon b. Judah: 

89, lines 23-25; 105 , lines 16-17; 112 , lines 13-14; 122 . 


628 



‘ALIYA AND PILGRIMAGE [SECS. 819-834] 

is, the very hard rock on which he usually ate, for it emerges that he lived 
on the Mount of Olives. This rock was formed, according to the Muslim 
traditionists, ‘when its owners became monkeys and swine’ (here there is a 
clear hint at the Jews, see the Koran: vii: 163-169, the aforementioned 
story which Muslim tradition relates to Eilat). According to him, people’s 
dwellings on the mount were hewn into the stone and the dust which 
accumulated, would also turn into stone, and frequently the dust sur¬ 
rounding a door would petrify to the extent that the door could no longer 
be opened from within and would cause someone’s death. He was always 
careful to leave a stone the size of an eighth of a dirham at the entrance, in 
order to prevent the door from closing altogether. Mujlr al-Dln al- 
‘Ulayrm, who wrote close to the year 1500, notes that at the top of the 
Mount of Olives is the grave of Umm al-Khayr, who was Rabi‘a, daugh¬ 
ter of Isma‘11, a woman from Basra who converted to Islam and was a 
client of the ‘ Aqil family. She died in 185, that is, 801, and her grave is near 
the site of Jesus’ ascent to heaven, to the south. 105 

[833] A favourite place of prayer in Jerusalem, apart from the Mount of 
Olives, was the gates of the Temple Mount. Daniel b. Azariah, for 
instance, notes in one of his letters that he prayed ‘at the gates of the Lord’s 
house’ and at ‘the resting place of my forefathers’, that is, alongside the 
tombs of the house of King David. We are not aware of which such site 
was indicated at that time. Joseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon ‘prostrates 
himself before the gates of His sanctuary with supplications, falls down at 
the gates, caresses the stones [and prays] at the spot where the shekhma of 
God stood [that is, the Mount of Olives]’. Avon b. Sedaqa would usually 
pray near the gates, and it seems that he preferred them to the synagogue. 
Shemaiah he-haver, writing to Nehorai b. Nissim, mentions that he prays 
for him daily ‘at the gates of the Temple . .. and on the Mount of Olives’. 

It was the custom to pronounce the excommunication of the Karaites on 
the Mount of Olives during the gathering there. Concerning this excom¬ 
munication, Abraham ibn Da’ud tells us: ‘when thejews used to celebrate 
the festival of Tabernacles on the Mount of Olives, they would encamp on 
the mountain in groups and greet one another warmly. The heretics 
would encamp opposite them, like two little flocks of goats. Then the 
Rabbanites would take out a scroll of the Torah and excommunicate the 
heretics by name right to their faces, while the latter remained silent like 

105 420 , c, lines 8-21; d, lines 3-4, 32-33; cf. also the statement of Salmon b. Yeruhim above. 
‘Eli ha-Kohen: 451 , a, line 12. Israel b. Nathan: 469 , a, lines 22-25. More interesting 
evidence: Musa b. Abl’l-Hayy Khalila, of the Maghribi merchants, writes in 1059 to 
Nehorai b. Nissim and notes that he rode up to the mount (the Mount of Olives); see: 
Bodl MS Heb d 75, f. 20, a, lines 8-9; cf. Udovitch, in Individualism etc., 67, n. 13; Sahl b. 
Masllah, in Harkavy, Me’assef, No. 13, 204. David b. Hayyun: 290 , line 8; Birum, 277'. 
Mas‘udl, Tanbih, 143. Ibn al-Faqlh, 172. Ibn al-‘ArabI, Ah'kam, 523f. ‘Ulayml, 258. 


629 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

dumb dogs’. As I have already mentioned, this custom was the source of 
serious quarrels which even caused a division among the Rabbanites and 
brought about the intervention of the authorities, and the arrest and exile 
of some of the people of the yeshiva. The Mount of Olives was also the site 
of proclaiming the yeshiva’s appointments and the titles of honour granted 
to the devotees of the yeshiva in the communities. 

On the Mount of Olives, there was a stone, ten cubits in length and two 
cubits wide, which was called ‘the chair of the cantors’. It was believed that 
this seat was lying where the Divine Presence had stood for a period of 
more than three and a half years (according to Ezekiel and the homily I 
quoted above), and where it would return in the future. This was the site 
where the head of the yeshiva would preach during the gathering. Solo¬ 
mon b. Judah writes: ‘so I stood upon the chair’. 106 

[834] There is no doubt that the pilgrimages were of great significance to 
the status of the Palestinian yeshiva, its material and spiritual influence and 
strength. Hence, we naturally find repeated calls from the Palestinian 
yeshiva to awake and ‘come to Jerusalem’, that is, to come on a pilgrim¬ 
age. In the autumn of 1039, at the height of the quarrel between him and 
Solomon b. Judah, Nathan b. Abraham writes to ‘the yedld (friend) of the 
yeshiva’, undoubtedly one of his followers, and he reminds him that the 
holidays are approaching, that ‘all of Israel’ would be shortly coming on 
pilgrimage to Jerusalem. It would be a good thing if many of his true and 
genuine supporters would be prominent among the pilgrims, and the 
addressee should make every effort to recruit a large number of his circle in 
order that ‘they should make up the majority and not the lesser part’. He 
asks that the people of his faction should convene a general assembly to 
discuss organisational arrangements for this purpose, to compose a list of 
participants, and to try to make propaganda to attract the largest number 
of people. Daniel b. Azariah, in one of his letters, expresses satisfaction at 
the success of the mass pilgrimage at the beginning of his office as Gaon 
and particularly at the calm and peaceful atmosphere among those taking 
part. ‘Not a bad word was spoken between two Jews. The pilgrims 
ascended in song and prayer and went to their tents happy and 
good-tempered. ’ 

106 Daniel b. Azariah: 379 , line 8. Joseph ha-Kohen: 411 , lines 35-36. Avonb. Sedaqa: 503 , b, 
lines 27ff. In the same letter, he says that he also intends visiting ‘the graves of the 
patriarchs’, that is, Hebron. Shemaiahhe-haver: 519. Abraham b. Da’ud, Seferha-qabbala, 
68, see the editor’s notes there, 94, 127 (in the English part); see also Mann ,Jews, I, 135f; 
on the excommunication see mainly: 85 , 122 , 182 ; the latter source contains a lively des¬ 
cription of the ascent to the Mount of Olives in Tishri, in order to proclaim the holidays, 
with the blowing of the shofar, when Abraham, son of the Gaon, leads the pilgrims; and 
also a description of the pronouncing of the excommunication of the Karaites. The ‘chair 
of the cantors’: 2 , a verso, lines 8ff. Solomon b. Judah: 85 , line 13; the custom of the head 
of the yeshiva preaching on the Mount on Hosha'na rabba (standing on 


630 



‘ALIYA AND PILGRIMAGE [SECS, 819-834] 

The pilgrimages involved great difficulties and innumerable hardships, 
partly because the sea-ways were risky, and this was the major means of 
reaching Palestine. It seems that pilgrims seldom travelled by camel 
caravan - partly due to the dangers encountered while travelling by land, 
for the roads were frequently troubled by troops or brigands. Hardships of 
the kind encountered by the Christian pilgrims, especially the caravan of 
pilgrims led by Gunther, Bishop of Bamberg, who were attacked near 
Ramla in March 1065 (see above), were evidently not the fate of the Jewish 
pilgrims. The latter were generally inhabitants of the Muslim world and 
were well acquainted with the conditions of the region. Many of them 
used to travel and visit Palestine regularly for commercial purposes. 
However, we are aware of the fact that the number of pilgrims decreased 
in insecure times. Solomon b. Judah writes to Sahlan b. Abraham, leader 
of the Babylonians in Fustat, saying, ‘I will not conceal from you that even 
those pilgrims who came every year have stopped coming because of the 
warring troops and the impassable roads. ’ There is also a complaint about 
the straitened circumstances of the ‘pilgrims [who] this year were mostly 
takers [and not givers]; this is their way in their folly’ - as Solomon b. 
Judah writes to Ephraim b. Shemaria. In the letters from the eleventh 
century in my collection, we do not hear of local Christians mistreating 
the Jewish pilgrims in Jerusalem. However, the Karaite Sahl b. Masliah 
wrote about this in the tenth century in his Hebrew introduction to his 
Book of Precepts: ‘and when the women go there, the ‘arelbn [the un cir¬ 
cumcised] come out ... to damn, offend and curse’. 

To sum up, one may say that at the time of the period under discussion, 
from the Muslim conquest until the Crusaders’ conquest, Jewish pilgrim¬ 
age went on continuously, as long as external circumstances permitted. It 
was one of the major expressions of the continuity of Jewish life in the 
transition from antiquity to the Middle Ages. Pilgrimage was also an 
oft-repeated practical expression of the Jews of the diaspora’s deep spiri¬ 
tual ties with Jerusalem. 107 


Burial in Palestine 

[835] The Jewish custom of bringing the dead to be buried in Palestine 
was already common in antiquity, as exemplified by the graves of the 

‘the chair’): Abraham son of the Gaon, 141, lines 9-10; an Arab source mentions the kursi 
sulayman, Solomon’s chair, on the Mount of Olives, see al-Musharraf, Fada’il, 47b. 

107 See the call of Solomon b. Judah ( m . 1035): 121, lines 24-28. Nathan b. Abraham: 187. 
Daniel b. Azariah: 365, lines 12ff, Solomon b. Judah: 88, a, lines 14-15. The majority are 
poor: 112, lines 11-12; Mann, Jett's, I, 164, did not grasp the significance of the letter and 
saw in it an expression of the division between factions; what seems to be a description of 
the hardships suffered by a pilgrim, can be found in the letter of‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel 
to Abu’l-Surur Farah b. Isaac, 447. See also 403, the story of the difficulties of a pilgrim - 


6jl 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

fathers of the nation and borne out by the cemetery in Bet Shearim. It 
seems that in those generations, they adhered to a distorted version of the 
saying of R. Meir, the tanna of the second century, who said that whoever 
lives in Palestine ‘is certain to be resurrected in the world to come’. The 
sages of Palestine even treated with contempt those who lived abroad and 
were brought after their death, to defile the soil of Palestine. However, we 
know that a very different attitude evolved at the same time, especially in 
Babylonia, which was that burial in Palestine was akin to being ‘buried 
under the altar’. The Karaite ‘All b. Sulayman, in the latter half of the 
eleventh century, confirms the existence of the custom of burial in Pal¬ 
estine in his time. Muslim writers also bear witness to the fact. Al-Jahiz 
attributes this custom to the descendants of Aaron and David (that is, the 
priests and the exilarchs) specifically, and he goes into detail and says that 
they are taken out of their graves after one year and brought somewhere in 
al-Sham for another year and from there, they are taken to the Bayt 
al-Maqdis (meaning Jerusalem). An inscription on a tomb in Venosa in 
southern Italy, of a certain R. Abraham, who died in the year 753 from the 
destruction of the Temple, that is 821, ends with the words: ‘and whoever 
shall carry him to the Temple will be inscribed among those destined to 
live in Jerusalem’. In a Karaite memorial list of an unidentifiable date, 
mention is made of‘his great sanctity Aaron the physician, who is buried 
in the Holy Land, may God have mercy on his soul’. He had been a 
member of the al-Kazirunl family (from Kazirun in Persia), well known in 
Fustat, and was evidently taken to Palestine to be buried there. In 1006, a 
childless woman in Fustat bequeaths in a death-bed testament, two qirats 
(that is, one twelfth) of a compound belonging to her, to ‘be sold and used 
to bring my bones tojerusalem, the Holy City’. In around 1020, theNagid 
of the Maghrib, Abraham b. ‘Afa’, thanks the merchant Joseph b. Jacob 
ibn ‘Awkal in Fustat for having dealt with the transfer of his brother’s 
remains from Qayrawan to Jerusalem, and he asks him to compensate 
Abu Ibrahim Ishaq b. al-Sahl, evidently a Jerusalemite, for his efforts and 
expenses in connection with this burial. A woman of Fustat authorises an 
emissary to spend up to seventeen dinars to ‘uncover the bones’ of her 
husband Nathan (Hiba) ha-Levi and move them to Jerusalem. One can 
assume that wills requesting the transfer of bones to Jerusalem were 
generally executed, because this matter was treated with awe, as emerges 
from a responsum of an anonymous Gaon to a query regarding a certain 
Jacob, who appointed over his two sons ‘trustees ... and ordered his two 
sons to take his bones to Palestine’. The Gaon replies that ‘this is the law of 
the Torah, that his sons should carry out his wishes ... it is imperative to 

evidently from a Christian country - who was stuck in Alexandria, as mentioned above. 

Sahl b. Masliah, in Harkavy, Ale’assef No. 13, 204. 



BURIAL IN PALESTINE [SECS. 835-837] 


carry out the wishes of the dead to take his bones to the Temple’ (that is, to 
Palestine, as it was commonly used by the Arabs as well), and so on. A 
letter from the community in Gaza, written by Josiah he-haver b. Nathan, 
to the court in Fustat, mentions Mevorakh b. Nathan of Gaza, who is 
travelling to Egypt in connection with the inheritance of his brother 
‘Amram, who died in the Fayyum, and also in order to ‘carry his coffin’. 
Apparently there is an indication here that he intends to bury his brother in 
Palestine. 

In the succeeding centuries, Hebron was the city wherejews wished to 
be buried; but burials in Hebron are not mentioned in the sources of the 
period under discussion. Thus it says in the commentary of Solomon b. 
ha-Yatom to the tractate Mashqin (apparently in the first half of the 
twelfth century): ‘as is done still today in all the neighbourhood of Hebron 
... sending their dead to Hebron’. This information is questionable as the 
Crusaders controlled Palestine at the time, and it is possible that an earlier 
tradition is reflected here. Moses Nahmanides writes in a letter to his son in 
1267, that he now travels to Hebron ‘the city of the graves of our fore¬ 
fathers, to prostrate myself before them and to dig a grave for me there’. 108 

[836] Muslim tradition adopted the idea of the preference of being 
buried in Jerusalem. Nasir Khusraw, the Persian traveller who visited 


108 The saying of R. Meir: ‘Everyone who lives permanently in Palestine’: PT, Shabbat, i, 3c; 
see ibid. , Kil’ayim, ix, 32d, where they speak of the dead of the diaspora who are buried in 
Palestine (according to Jer. ii:7): ‘ye defiled my land, and made mine heritage an abom¬ 
ination’. Tosejia, Av. Z., v:3 (Zuckerm. 466); BT, Ket. llOb-llla. See also ‘the most 
Babylonian’ version: ‘Whoever is buried in any other country is like buried in Babylonia, 
and whoever is buried in Babylonia is like buried in Palestine’, in Avot de-R. Nathan 
(Schechter ed., 82); cf. Urbach, Sages, 998, n. 87, and more references ibid. ‘All b. 
Sulayman, his Commentary on Genesis, 156. Jahiz, Rasd’il II, 411; on thejewish custom of 
burying their dead in Palestine see also Tadmuri, MS BM Or 1284, 74b (They do so 
according to the precedent of the burial of Jacob); Ibn Babawayh al-Qummi, ‘Ilal, 296f 
(according to the precedent of the burial ofjoseph); he speaks of ahlal-kitdb, ‘people of the 
book’, but it is clear that he means the Jews and not (also) the Christians, as believed by 
Mez, 372. The Venosa inscription: Sefer ha-yishuv, 40 (according to U. Cassuto’s read¬ 
ing). The Karaite memorial list: Mann, Texts, II, 281, MS Firkovitch II, No. 1464, fol. 
18a, and cf. on Kazirun and Kazirunis: Gil, Documents, 286, n. 3. The woman from Fustat: 
Document No. 1, ibid, (edited earlier by Assaf, Tarbiz, 9[1937/8], 206ff). Abraham b. 
‘Ata’: TS 10 J 9, f. 26, lines 10ff., see in Goitein, Tarbiz, 34(1964/5), 166f. The wife of 
Nathan ha-Levi: ULC Or 1080 J 262, quoted by Goitein, Sejunot, 8(1963/4), 107, n. 5. 
The letter of a Maghribi merchant to his son in Fustat, deals among other things, with the 
burying of the bones of a deceased in Jerusalem. We find there a passage in which he 
informs him that he intends sending him ‘the bones. Go with them to Jerusalem, may it be 
rebuilt’, etc. It was written ca. 1050. SeeTS 8J 18, f. 16. Theresponsum oftheGaon: Osar 
ha-ge’dnim, Gittin, No. 56 (p. 25) see ibid., quotations in which the Temple ( Bet ha- 
miqddsh) means Palestine; cf. further on this: Assaf, Tarbiz, ibid., 19; and see also Maimo- 
nides, Responsa I, 200. Mevorakh b. Nathan the Gazan, 219, lines 5-6. The Commentary on 
Mashqin of Solomon b. ha-Yatom, p. XIII; cf. Hirschberg, Tarbiz, 42(1972/3), 385. See 
the letter of Moses Nahmanides according to a Munich manuscript, in Kedar, Tarbiz, 
41(1971/2), 93. 


633 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


Palestine in 1047, mentions that many (Muslims) come to Jerusalem, 
because they believe that the resurrection of the dead will start from the 
‘rock’ and that the Muslim cemetery is thus to be found at the edge of the 
plateau, on the Mount of Olives. According to al-Wasitl, writing in ca. 
1020, the cemetery is situated in Mamilla (he has: zaytiin al-milla, ‘the olive 
trees of the religion’, a commonly used distortion of the name Mamilla, as 
is also another version: bab al-milla). He also goes into detail over the 
advantages of being buried injerusalem. According to al-Zarkashl (writ¬ 
ing in the fourteenth century), the person being buried injerusalem is not 
subjected to the purgatorial torments of the tomb (fitnat al-qabr), and if he 
was buried in the zaytun al-milla, it would be as if he was buried in heaven. 
It is attributed to Ka‘b al-Ahbar that for whoever is buried injerusalem, it 
is as if he has already gone down the straight road, for Jerusalem is the land 
of the resurrection ( al-mahshar , ‘the gathering’, the by-name for the resur¬ 
rection of the dead at the End of Days). And for whoever dies injerusalem, 
so said the Prophet, it is as if he died in heaven. 

Apart from the many Muslim personalities buried injerusalem, whom 
we have seen in the lists of personalities above, the desire to be buried there 
was most marked among the Ikhshldids. Even before their time, Takin, 
who had been governor of Damascus and afterwards of Egypt, was buried 
there. He died in Egypt in AH 321, that is AD 933, and was brought to 
Jerusalem to be buried. It is told that this Takin quarrelled with one of the 
leaders of the Sufis, the ascetic Abu’l-Hasan ‘All b. Muhammad b. Sahl 
al-DInawarl, who was a silversmith by profession (he died in AH 331, that 
is AD 942/3). Takin ousted him to Jerusalem. Some time later, exactly as 
foretold by al-DInawarl, Takln’s coffin arrived in Jerusalem, and on 
reaching the city, it fell from the back of the mule, and the animal urinated 
on it. The Ikhshld who died in Damascus on Dhu’l-Hijja AH 334 (July AD 
946), was also brought to Jerusalem and buried there. His brother, al- 
Hasan ibn Tughj, was also buried injerusalem (he died in Ramla in AH 
342, that is AD 953/4), as were the Ikhshld’s sons, Anujur, on 7 Dhu’l- 
Qa‘da AH 347 (20January AD 959), and ‘All, on 11 Muharram AH 355 (8 
January AD 966), and the regent of Egypt, Kafur, in AH 356, that is AD 
967. 109 

109 Nasir Khusraw (text), 20, (translation), 68; it seems that his intention is al-sdhira , the 
plateau on the northern part of the Mount of Olives; cf. Le Strange, Palestine, 218ff. 
WasitI, 46f, and see the editor’s note there. Zarkashi, I‘lam, 294. In Mujlr al-Dln al- 
‘Ulaymfs time, the cemetery was near bab al-rahma, that is, east of the Temple Mount, 
apparently in the Kidron Valley, for he indicates: under the wall of al-Masjid al-Aqsa (see 
ibid., 233, 413). Takin: DhahabI, 'Ibar, II, 186. The story of the Sufi: SuyutI, Muliadara, I, 
514; Ashtor, Annales ESC, 27(1972), 187, n. 14, sees in this evidence that the Sufis 
preferred to live in Jerusalem; but this is not stated there, nor even hinted at; more on 
Takin: Ibn Taghrl Bardi, III, 211: Takin died on 16 RabT I, 321, 16 March AD 933. The 
Ikhshld: YafiT, II, 315; DhahabI, ‘Ibar, II, 186; Ibn SaTd, Mughrib, 44 (according to him he 


634 



BURIAL IN PALESTINE [SECS. 835-837] 


[837] The burying of Muslims on the Temple Mount or its environs was 
undoubtedly very painful to the Jews of that time, as must have been the 
presence of many Christian graves from pre-Islamic times. This is con¬ 
firmed in Karaite Bible commentaries of the tenth century. Salmon b. 
Yeruhim complains about ‘the graves of the uncircumcised and the Keda- 
rites’ to be seen in Jerusalem; there are in the city a large number of unclean 
things, ‘and women and men with issues, and menstruating women and 
lepers and uncircumcised ones, camels and asses and coffins of the dead, 
and male prostitutes and homosexuality, and blaspheming and cursing, 
and pronouncements of idolatry and of the false prophet, and the eastern 
gate, the place of Meshelemiah, the porter [1 Chr., xxvi:l], has become a 
latrine for the Ishmaelites, and all the monuments of the House of God 
have become graves of the wicked’. And in the same commentary: ‘The 
House of God. . . lo, it is now an altar for the sons of Hagar instead of the 
sons of Aaron, its servants; lo, the uncircumcised and the unclean enter 
there instead of sacrifice and altar. .. and within they proclaim the name of 
a statue and a false prophet five times a day . . . lo, they bring the coffins of 
the dead within and pray over them every day . . . and lo, there are in their 
stead, cemeteries at the gates’. Elsewhere, he speaks of‘the ‘arelim and the 
unclean, and the images, and people with issues, and lepers, and adultery, 
and man lying with man, and privies, and they pray over the dead in its 
courtyards, and proclaim in the memory of an idol and a false prophet five 
times a day’. Sahl b. Masliah, in his introduction to his Book of Precepts, 
also speaks of the heart-break of ‘the mourning brethren’ on ‘seeing the 
coffins of the dead being brought into the place where the holy ark stood’. 
In the same vein, Yefet b. ‘All also has his say: ‘the castrated and the 
unclean and the coffins of the dead and the sodomites and those who 
commit abominable acts, are instead of the ark of God’. In the eleventh 
century we find such complaints only on one occasion, in a letter from the 
yeshiva written in 1057: ‘and the unruly people came and defiled the place, 
its gatekeepers are alien, its neighbourhood graves’. 110 

The Jewish quarters of Jerusalem 

[838] The following discussion focuses on three central issues: (1) 
Whether there was one Jewish-Rabbanite quarter in Jerusalem; or whether 

was buried in Jerusalem after camphor [kdjur] was not found in Damascus for his 
embalming and rats ate the ends of his fingers and ants his eyes; black slaves bore his 
corpse on the back of a blind camel); Ibn Kathlr, Biday a, XI, 215; SafadI, al-Wdjt , III, 171; 
MaqrTzT, Khitat, II, 438. Al-Hasan ibn Tughj: Ibn ‘ Asakir, IV, 186; Ibn Taghrl BardI, III, 
310; Anujur: MaqrizI, Khitat, II, 17; Ibn Taghri BardI, III, 293, 326; Kafur: Ibn Khallikan, 
III, 270; Ibn Taghrl BardI, IV, 10. (The sources are not unanimous on the date of Kaffir's 
death.) 

110 Salmon: Commentary to Lamentations (MS Paris 295), 48a, 54a. (Feuerstein), XXIII— 

635 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

there were two, one in the southern part of the city and the other in the 
north; (2) whether one can define the site of the southern quarter precisely; 
and (3) what was the site of the Karaite quarter? 

We have seen above the fragment from the Jewish chronicle containing 
a description of the meeting of the Jews with the caliph ‘Umar ibn 
al-Khattab, and how the Jews requested and received from him permis¬ 
sion to settle in the southern part of Jerusalem, near the gates of ‘the 
qodesh’, that is, of the Temple Mount and the Siloam. According to the 
chronicle, the region was covered with the ruins of many generations and 
it is thejews who undertook to restore that area. It emerges that this was 
the Jewish market, and it remains so at the time the chronicle was being 
written. They built their houses in the same neighbourhood, using build¬ 
ing materials which they found there among the ruins. 

An indication of the responsibilities which thejews took on themselves 
when they received permission to settle in Jerusalem can be found in a 
letter of the yeshiva written in 1057, and we have already seen that it 
included the obligation to clear away its rubbish, to clean its sewerage, to 
repair its walls and to take care of the city’s guardians. It would be rather 
far-fetched to assume that these obligations on the part of the Jews to 
maintain cleanliness and repair and guard the wall applied to the entire 
city, and they were undoubtedly applicable merely to the section in which 
they lived. At any rate, we learn from this that their quarter was located 
within the walls. 

We find confirmation of the fact that there was a Jewish quarter in the 
southern part of the city from MujTr al-Dln al-'Ulayml, writing in 1496. 
According to him, the Zion Gate was known by the nickname ‘the Gate of 
the Jewish Quarter’. Avon b. Sedaqa, in his letter to Nehorai b. Nissim, 
written on 11 November 1064, states that ever since the funeral of Daniel 
b. Azariah, thejews have not been permitted to pass in front of the ‘house 
of the community’ (dar al-jama‘a) with their dead unless they pay two 
dinars for every corpse. They are only allowed to pass through the Zion 
Gate or through the Gate of Siloam (Silwan), that is, the two gates that 
were in the southern wall of the city. At any rate, we understand from this 
as well that the quarter was situated in the southern part of the city, within 
the walls. 111 

[839] The idea that there existed a Jewish quarter in the northern part of 

XXIV; Commentary to Ecclesiates (To Eccles. ix:6; BM Or 2517), fol. 83, in Vajda, Deux 
commentaires , 92. Sahl b. Masllah, in; Harkavy, Me’assef No. 13, 199. Yefet b. ‘All: 
Commentary to Psalms (MS Paris 289), 48a. The letter of the yeshiva: 420, c, lines Iff. 

111 See 1, the fragment of the chronicle, and see the various readings there: ‘thejews’ market’, 
siiq al-yahtid, mentioned in the letter of Solomon b. Judah - see 92, a, line 36; it is not 
mentioned in some of the Muslim sources which contain details on the markets of 
Jerusalem; al-Musharraf, 23b, mentions the suq Sulayman (should perhaps be: Silwan), 


636 



THE JEWISH QUARTERS OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 838-848] 


the city was first proposed by Le Strange. He suggested that a Jewish 
quarter existed there at the time of the Crusaders’ conquest, a detail he 
mentions incidentally when quoting the fragment of al-‘Ulaymi about the 
Zion Gate mentioned above. Evidence to sustain the assumption of the 
presence of a Jewish quarter in the north of the city was put forward by 
Prawer, namely: (1) the part played by the Jews in defending the city 
according to a Crusaders’ source, and it is known that the latter’s major 
efforts were in the north of the city; (2) the name Juiverie or Judearia given 
to the north-eastern quarter of the city during the Crusaders’ period; (3) 
Jewish inscriptions found in the madrasa al-Sa‘rdiyya in the northern part of 
the Temple Mount, where some Jewish names were found; and (4) a 
quotation from a Geniza letter (mentioned earlier), from Avon b. Sedaqa 
to Nehorai b. Nissim. 

Let us examine these arguments one by one. We read about the partici¬ 
pation of the Jews in the city’s defence during the Crusaders’ conquest in 
the rhymed chronicle of Gilo of Paris. He had first been a monk in Cluny, 
and afterwards became a bishop and then a cardinal, and the pope sent him 
on a mission to Palestine in about 1130. He says: ‘Mox gentilis adest, 
Judaeus, Turcus Arabsque, missilibus, jaculis obsistitur igne, veneno’ 
(‘then, the local people came, the Jew, the Turk and the Arab, they fought 
with spears and arrows, even with fire and poison’). Prawer concludes 
from this and from the fact that most of the Crusaders’ pressure and 
breakthrough took place in the northern sector of the city, that the Jewish 
quarter was in the north. No other source mentions the participation of the 
Jews in the defence of Jerusalem, though this does not discredit the validity 
of the chronicle. Indeed, it is known that the greater part of the Crusaders’ 
effort and breakthrough was in the northern part of the city, but what 
evidence do we have that the Jews were defending this area in particular, or 
that it was impossible for them to come from the city’s southern part to 
defend the northern sector? 

The matter of the Juiverie (other versions: Juderie,Juerie, Iuerie,Judairia, 
Judearia) is mentioned in a treatise from the year 1187 (the year Jerusalem 
fell to Saladin), La citez de Jerusalem, which says that this was the name of 
the street that led from the street ofjehoshaphat to the left, leading to the 
Jehoshaphat Gate ( bab al-asbat). This was where most of the Syrians (that 


near Mount Zion; perhaps it is the one called suq al-yahiid', ‘Ulayml, 401, mentions the suq 
al-qattamn, al-‘attdrm, al-khadrawat, al-qumash (cotton, perfume, vegetable, and textile- 
traders), but this is at the end of the fifteenth century. See on thejerusalem markets: El‘ad, 
Cathedra, 24: 31, 1981/2. The letter of the yeshiva: 420, c, lines 34-35. ‘Ulayml, 406. 
Avon’s letter: 500; dar al-jamd'a is mentioned also in 141, a letter of Abraham son of the 
Gaon, line 17: Abu’l-Khayr Salih b. Mu'ammar is given the task of going up to dar 
al-jamd‘a\ one should note the expression ‘to go up to’, but we do not know which ascent 
is being referred to. 


637 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

is, the local Christians) lived in Jerusalem; the monastery of Mary Mag¬ 
dalene was also situated there - this refers, as I have already explained, to 
the monastery of the Jacobites and to thejacobites themselves. As we have 
seen, one can assume that the name Juiverie was used for this place because 
the small number of Jews who lived in Jerusalem at the time lived there, or 
perhaps it derived from the habit of Christian sects to call one another 
‘Jews’ in a pejorative sense. One should also bear in mind that this fact 
pertains to a time which is almost a century later than the period being 
discussed here. 

The Jewish inscriptions to the north of the Temple Mount do not offer 
evidence of a Jewish quarter in the northern part of Jerusalem. They 
contain names of Jews, some of which are in fact Arab names, such as 
Mwsy (Musa), Sulayman and ‘Imran, and others of which are Greek 
names, such as Theophilactus, Sisina, and Anastasia. The following sen¬ 
tence is also found there: ‘May the Lord God of hosts build this house.’ As 
the editor of the inscriptions, L. A. Mayer notes, this only goes to prove 
that Jews were passing and praying near the gates of the Temple Mount 
(in this instance: bab al-‘atm, ‘the Gate of Darkness’, which in the Middle 
Ages was called bab sharaf al-anbiya’, the ‘Gate of the Honour of the 
Prophets’). 

As to Avon b. Sedaqa’s letter, he writes from Jerusalem to Nehorai b. 
Nissim in Fustat, telling him that after considerable efforts, he has rented a 
small room (or: a small apartment) in the house of a Jewish woman for two 
dinars for a period of five months. The house stands in ‘our people’s 
vicinity’ (that is, ofjews from the Maghrib) and has all the conveniences: 
the bath-house is not far and the house is situated in the Jewish quarter, 
near the synagogue. In the continuation, the writer adds that he does not 
have the strength to tell how much trouble he went to with regard to the 
ruba'Tya, the quarter dinars; there was not a single person - grocery 
merchants nor wool traders nor clothing merchants — to whom he did not 
offer the money. He succeeded in selling 39, weighing 8 V 2 dinars, for 20 
dirhams per dinar, when the rate was thirty-six and a half. The first editors 
of the letter erred in two places: they interpreted kenesiya as meaning a 
Christian church instead of a synagogue. This term, kenesiya, can be found 
in my collection, and is included in the Hebrew Index. Secondly, as they 
were not familiar with the term ruba'Tya (quarter dinars), they assumed 
that a square was being referred to (in Arabic a square is called murabba'a), 
and Prawer added his interpretation that they were speaking of the quadri- 
vium, or quarefor, in the French of the Crusaders’ time, the crossroads at the 
street leading from the Nabulus Gate (Solomon street) with the street 
parallel to the via Dolorosa, which allegedly was the borderline between 
the Christian quarter to the west and the Jewish quarter to the east. 


638 



THE JEWISH QUARTERS OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 838-848] 


In addition to the above arguments, which we have seen are generally 
invalid, Prawer quotes the fragment of the aforementioned Jewish chron¬ 
icle as the basis for his view, according to an incorrect reading in the first 
edition, in which it is said that the Jews ‘built their quarter [consisting] of 
buildings, the remnants of which have remained for generations’. In this 
passage, Prawer finds evidence that the southern quarter ceased existing at 
some unknown date in the eleventh century and that ‘at any rate, the 
southern quarter no longer existed on the eve of the Crusaders’ invasion’; 
but as we have seen, the meaning of that passage is quite different. The 
Jews built their quarter (in the south) from material taken from old ruins. 
As we have already seen from the decree concerning Jewish funerals 
described by Avon b. Sedaqa in his letter, the Jews still lived in the 
southern part of the city in 1064, that is, nine years before the Turcomans’ 
invasion. There is no reason to believe that they evacuated their quarter 
and established a new one in the course of nine years, and even less so in the 
twenty-six years between the Turcomans’ conquest and that of the 
Crusaders. 

The matter of the cave of Zedekiah is also relevant at this juncture. In a 
letter from Ramla to Jerusalem, written by Salama ha-Kohen b. Joseph to 
Shema'ya he-haver b. Yeshu'a, in May 1054, the address in Jerusalem was 
bab al-maghara, the Gate of the Cave. The first editor of the letter, B. 
Chapira, says that this is ‘without doubt, a street near the cave of Zedekiah 
within proximity of the Nabulus Gate’. Thus we return to the north. The 
cave of Zedekiah is not mentioned in any sources of the period, however, 
nor is it the only underground structure in Jerusalem. And as we shall see 
further on, the ‘cave’ was a by-name which the Jews ofjerusalem used for 
their synagogue. 112 

112 Le Strange, Palestine, 215; Prawer, Zion, 11(1946), 42, 46f; ibid., 12(1947), 147ff. See: 
Gilo, 794, lines 159-160, cf. the introduction there, CXLIII. On this point, the defence of 
Jerusalem, Ben Horin has already commented on Prawer’s view, see Kiryat Sefer, 
24(1947/8), 111; see there doubts as to the possibility of a Jewish quarter existing in the 
northern part of the city altogether. La citez de Jerusalem; Vogiie, Eglises, 443; Tobler, 
Descriptiones, 219; see: Kyrillos Skythopolitanus, 128: the Nestorians are called Jews 
because they would not acknowledge that Mary is the mother of God; in the year 512, 
Marinos, adviser to the emperor, claims that the inhabitants of the city ofjerusalem are 
Nestorians, who are like the Jews (so one is given to understand), see ibid., 146; cf.: 
Festugiere, Moines, 111(2), 53, n. 81, who quotes similar expressions. See also the dis¬ 
cussion above, section 678. Dinur, in his article on the Jews in Palestine during the 
Crusaders’ conquest, Zion (ha-me’assej), 2(1926/7), 53, n. 3, already deals with the 
possibility that the quarter was called Judearia because the Crusaders permitted thejews to 
live there, and he denied this possibility, just as he denied the veracity of Benjamin of 
Tudela’s statement that he found 200Jews in Jerusalem, ‘living under David’s tower on 
the edge of the city’, and preferred the version: four Jews (the Rome MS). One must add 
to the sources that mention Judearia, a document by which William, who is in charge of 
the Holy Sepulchre, donated a bakery to the church of St Mary in the Kidron V alley; that 
bakery was in that part of the city called by the special name Judearia (in ilia urbis parte 


639 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

[840] Braslavi attempted to locate the site of the Jewish quarter on the 
Mount of Olives, or at least at its base. He tried to support his assumption 
by such expressions as ‘it (the Rabbanite congregation) is situated opposite 
the Temple’, repeatedly found in the letters of the Palestinian yeshivafrom 
the days of the calendrical dispute in the tenth century and in the above- 
mentioned letter of the Palestinian yeshiva, but it is clear that such ex¬ 
pressions would apply to anywhere injerusalem, for one can always draw 
a direct line (‘opposite’) between two points, one of which is the Temple 
Mount. We have also seen that thejewish quarter was situated within the 
wall, and therefore the assumption that it was located on the Mount of 
Olives or on its slopes is out of the question. 

Corroborating evidence of the location of the J ewish quarter is the sha ‘ar 
ha-kohen, the ‘Priest’s Gate’. The documents of the period mention in a 
few instances, a gate on the Temple Mount which is so called (see the 
Hebrew Index), and it emerges that thejewish quarter was in its vicinity: 
‘the Rabbanite sect which lives at the Priest’s Gate’. In the letters of the 
Palestinian Gaon at the time of the calendrical dispute, we also find 
mention of this gate: ‘our prayers for you are constant... on the Mount of 
Olives . .. and at the Priest’s Gate and at the gates of God’s Temple . . .’; 
‘and we blessed you on the Mount of Olives . .. and at the Priest’s Gate’. 
There were some who assumed that it was self-evident that the Priest’s 
Gate would be to the east of the Temple Mount. Thus, Luncz assumed that 
the Priest’s Gate and the Eastern Gate were one and the same, as did 
Yehuda, who decisively claimed that the Priest’s Gate and the Gate of 
Mercy were identical; but the two did not elaborate on their arguments. 
Braslavi also assumed that the Priest’s Gate was the eastern gate of the 
Temple Mount, by comparing the text of the midrash in Shir ha-shirim 
rabba (to the Song of Sol., ii:9 ‘Behold, he standeth behind our wall’): ‘the 
Priest’s Gate and the Hulda Gate were never destroyed’, and the text of the 
Mishna (Middot, i:3): ‘the High Priest, who bums the cow, and the cow 
and all its care-takers, go out to the Mount of Olives’. It is quite easy to 
understand that there is no real proof in this. 113 

[841] Prawer also establishes a connection between these two sources, 

positum que specialiter Judearia nmcupatur). See Delaborde, Notre Dame, 43. See Mayer, 
Zion (ha-me’assej), 3(1928/9), 24. Avon’s letter: 501; Vilnay, Zion, 5(1980), 75f, interprets 
kenesiyd as the Holy Sepulchre or some other church, and assumes that the ruba'lya was 
perhaps a square courtyard at the edge of the Jewish quarter; see further the discussion on 
Avon’s letter in Goitein, Mediterranean Society I, 378 (No. 35), and ibid, his remark on the 
error of the editors; one must take into consideration that the first editors, Gottheil and 
Worrell, did pioneering work in their publication (in 1927); see the view ofPrawer, Zion, 
12(1947), 147f. The fragment of the chronicle: 1. The letter from Ramla: 525, see the 
introduction to that letter. 

113 Braslavi, BJPES, 5(1936/8), 28ff, and the sources there; ‘the Rabbanite congregation’, 
etc.: 49, line 11; the letters of the Gaon: Bornstein, Sokolow Jubilee Volume, 63, 107. 


640 



THE JEWISH QUARTERS OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 838-848] 


and adds Christian sources on the everlastingness of the Eastern Gate or 
the Gates of Mercy, or the Golden Gates, as well as the account of Nasir 
Khusraw (1047), who notes that the Eastern Gate of the Temple Mount 
was built by King Solomon, and that of Estori ha-Parhi on the Shushan 
Gate and the Gates of Mercy. He quite rightly claims that the Priest’s Gate 
could not be the same as the Gates of Mercy (as was the opinion of Y ehuda, 
it will be recalled). This he gleaned from a Geniza document salawdt 
al-abwdb jt’l-quds (‘prayers at the Gates of Jerusalem’), where the Priest’s 
Gate and the Gates of Mercy are mentioned separately. Hence, he identi¬ 
fies the Priest’s Gate with the ‘Gate of the Funerals’ (bab al-jana’iz) men¬ 
tioned in al-‘Ulaymi, who says that this gate was to the south of the Gates 
of Mercy. However, one must bear in mind that the accounts of the 
Christian sources, as well as of the Persian traveller, had mainly a theologi¬ 
cal meaning and one cannot learn from them about the actual eastern gates, 
just as one certainly cannot identify the Priest’s Gate on the basis of these 
sources. On the other hand, it is the text of the Midrash about the Gates of 
Hulda and the Priest’s Gate, which reflect a real situation even though they 
deal with the period before the Muslim conquest. We should note that the 

Bornstein, who was very careful in his statements, notes ibid., 63, n. 6, in connection with 
the Priest’s Gate: it is not known; Luncz, Yerushalayim, 10(1913/4), 9; Yehuda, Zion 
(ha-me’assef), 3(1928/9), 113, nn. 6, 9; and also in his wake, Hirschberg, BJPES, 
13(1946/7), 159, andn. 16. Braslavi, ibid., 27; in his article: Eretz-Israel, 7(1963/4), 72, he 
uses his first article as documentation for the renewed decision that during the period 
under discussion, the Eastern Gate was called by the Jews offerusalem, the Priest’s Gate. 
See Shir ha-sh. rabbd (Vilna Press), 37a. Hirschman, Tarbiz, 55:217, 1985/6, edited 
supplements to the Midrash Ecclesiastes rabba which were preserved in manuscript. It 
says there (p. 220, lines 20ff): ‘When we stood on the Mount of Olives on Hosha‘na rabba, 
although people came from all the communities of the world one could see but 200, 
whereas they were 12,000 from the Hulda Gate until the Priest’s Gate’. Indeed, this is 
interesting evidence of the pilgrimages, in addition to what I have already quoted, supra, 
secs. 831 and 832. The intention of the writer (if he indeed wanted to say that those 
pilgrims were seen by him when actually standing on the Mount of Olives, although he 
does not say this explicitly; he may have mentioned the congregation on the last day of the 
Feast of Tabernacles merely to define the time): he who stood on the Mount of Olives 
merely saw 200 people out of the masses. That is, he saw those who were standing near 
him, approximately until the Hulda Gate to the south, but from there onward, westward 
to the Priest’s Gate (in the Western Wall) there were thousands more whom someone 
standing on the Mount of Olives could not see, naturally, because they were hidden by 
the Temple Mount. Strangely, Hirschman turns these simple words around; that 
whoever stands on the Mount of Olives sees the Hulda Gate as well as thePriest’s Gate (p. 
221). However, the Priest’s Gate was situated in the Jewish quarter, which was in the 
south and not in the east. Similarly, he tries to prove that a certain MS of Shir ha-shlrim 
rabba is earlier than the others, in order to conclude that there is no connection between 
the Western Wall and the Priest’s Gate. There is no basis to his arguments, nor can one 
learn anything from them about the age of the manuscript. There is also no foundation to 
his claim that the name ‘Priest’s Gate’ came into use only after the Muslim conquest. His 
assumption that the Elijah b. Menahem mentioned there, was a member of the family of 
the priestly Geonim (infra secs. 853, 858) is also groundless, for in the genealogical tree of 
this family, we only find Menahem ha-Kohen b. Elijah (or: b. Solomon b. Elijah). It was 

641 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


Midrash mentions the Priest’s Gate together with the Western Wall and 
the Hulda Gates; the latter were certainly situated in the south, according 
to the Mishna (Middot i:3). On the Priest’s Gate, it is said in Shir ha-shlrlm 
rabbd (to the Song of Sol., ii:9, behold, he standeth behind our wall): 
‘behind the Western Wall of the Temple, why? For the Lord has sworn 
that it will never be destroyed; indeed, the Priest’s Gate and the Hulda Gate 
have never been destroyed’. In Num. rabbd (xi:3): it is ‘the western wall of 
the Temple’ which has never been destroyed; and also in Lam. rabbd. The 
version in Shir ha-shlrlm rabbd should therefore be viewed as an interpret¬ 
ation, as if it intended to say: the western wall has never been destroyed, 
the proof being that the Priest’s Gate and the Hulda Gate were not 
destroyed. The ‘guide of Palestine’ in my collection does not mention the 
Priest’s Gate at all in its description (preserved almost in its entirety) of the 
eastern wall, and we would expect it to be mentioned ifit was there. It says 
that the south-western side existed ever since it was built by Solomon, and 
here one feels the influence of the aforementioned Midrash (‘it has never 
been destroyed’). The passage preceding the Hulda Gates has not been 
preserved there, and we may surmise that the gates of the western side 
were mentioned there, including the Priest’s Gate. It seems that the writer 
of the ‘Prayers at the Gates’ also lists the gates, starting from the southern 
corner of the western side of the Temple Mount with the Priest’s Gate, and 
ending with bab David and bab Shelomo, that is, the western wall. 114 

not customary to omit the designation ha-Kohen in those times, and apart from this, the 
names Elijah and Menahem were frequently used. 

114 Prawer, Zion, 12(1947), 139ff; Braslavi was of the same opinion as Prawer, see Kinniis 
xxv, 135—140. ‘The prayers at the gates’: TS Box K 27, f. 2a, edited by Mann, Texts, I, 
459; it is most likely that the mediaeval scribe who copied this document was not very 
familiar with what he copied; it seems that the abwab al-khamsa in this list, are in fact the 
abwab al-akhmas in 2, I, a, lines 6-7. i.e. the gates of the slaves of the akhmas, that is the 
plural of khums (fifth part) of the spoils, the property of the Muslim community; these 
were the slaves who were charged with cleaning the Temple Mount, and this entire 
matter has been discussed above in relation to the first settlement of Jews in Jerusalem. 
According to 2, a, recto, lines 10-14, the two Gates of Mercy (babayn al-rahma) in the east 
are identical with the Gates of Nikanor, that is, they are not identified with the Priest’s 
Gate; see in that document the description of the eastern wall in which the Priest’s Gate is 
lacking, whereas the description of the south-western side has been lost in the main. It is 
worth noting that the name ‘Gates of Mercy’ (abwab [or babayn] al-rahma) is of Muslim 
origin. It may have been copied from the Prophet’s mosque in Medina. There bab al-rahma 
served as the place to pray for rain, and its location was at the western end of the mosque. 
It was also called bab ‘Atika, after ‘Atika, daughter of‘Abdallah b. Yazid b. Mu‘awiya, for 
it was opposite her house. Prior to that, it was called bab al-siiq, for the market-place of 
Medina was alongside it to the west. See SamhudI, I, 503; Ibn Jubayr, 172; the name is 
connected to a verse in the Koran, lvii:13 (surat al-hadid, of the Iron): between the 
believers and those who are undecided a wall will raise, with a gate; inside will be mercy, 
outside castigation. According to one of the interpretations, the meaning of rahma is rain: 
al-Jawzi, TaJsfr(totherHraoftheHeights, vii:56), 28b; Suyiitl, Durr, VI, 174, who quotes 
traditions according to which the verse in the Koran relates to the gate in the eastern wall 
of the Temple Mount in Jerusalem; other traditions of commentators, for instance: 


642 



THE JEWISH QUARTERS OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 838-848] 


[842] One could also try to identify the site of the Priest’s Gate by 
comparing the lists of gates on the Temple Mount as they figure in the 
works of early Muslim writers, Ibn al-Faqlh, Ibn ‘Abd Rabbihi, al- 
MuqaddasT, Nasir Khusraw, and in two Jewish sources. We would note 
the absence of the western and northern gates in the remaining fragment of 
the list in the ‘guide of Palestine’; on the other hand, the names of the gates 
of the south and the east are preserved there. Also, it seems that a compari¬ 
son with the list in the ‘Prayers at the Gates’ helps to solve the mystery of 
the Priest’s Gate, by showing its proximity to the bab hitta in the Muslim 
lists. 115 


al-Zajjaj, Ma'am (MS BM Or 8248), 238b, do not mention geographical details. The 
Koranic background to the name bab al-rahma for the gate in Jerusalem has already been 
noted by Vincent et Abel, Jerusalem, II, 840; the Jews of the period were not aware of this 
fact and used to visit the gate and pray alongside it, and write about it, mentioning its 
name (in the singular or plural) in letters; see 198, line 44 ( ca . 1042); 469, a, line 17 (7 
October 1059): the account of the K araite in 290, line8. See Law. rabba, the Buber edition, 
fol. 35a. 

1,5 Ibn al-Faqlh, 101; Ibn ‘Abd Rabbihi, VI, 264; Muqaddasi, Aqdlim, 170; Nasir Khusraw 
(text, 24-28; (translation), 83-87. The list in Ibn ‘Abd Rabbihi was copied by al-‘UlaymI, 
248 (he attributes it to al-Qurtubl, who is Ibn ‘Abd Rabbihi, of Cordova). There remain 
gates, with uncertain locations, which may have had more than one name. Thus in the 
west: al-Khidr (a personality of the early Muslim tradition, who was commonly identi¬ 
fied with Elijah); Umm Khalid; al-Saqar (‘the fire of hell’, the name brings to mind 
al-Baqar in the ‘Prayers at the Gates’); al-Saklna (the Divine Presence, like the Hebrew 
shekhina). In the south, it is possible that bab mihrab Maryam was the same as al-akhmas in 
the Jewish sources. In the east, it is likely that bab al-wadi (the Gate of the Kidron Valley) 
and bab al-tawba are the sartie. In the north, there is little certainty concerning the Hanna, 
Isaac, al-Baqar and Judah Gates in the list that is found in the ‘Prayers at the Gates’, nor 
concerning their identity with the gates in the Muslim sources, nor is there any clarity 
concerning the comparison of the latter to each other, as there are notable differences in 
the names that are mentioned. In the story of the miracle that occurred in Ramla: 313, line 
15, it says that they go to pray at bab Yehuda. Yefet b. ‘All, in his commentary to Psalms 
(MS Paris 289), fol. 106 (Ps., cxxii:2) says that the City of God has twelve gates, three on 
each side. In the north: Reuben’s gate, Judah’s gate, Levi’s gate; in the east: Joseph’s gate, 
etc. At any rate, we have here some confirmation that Judah’s gate was in the north; the 
hilluq ha-qdra’tm we-ha-rabbamm in Pinsker, Liqqiite qadmoniyot, II, 104, also mentions that 
the Karaites who emigrated from Babylonia to Jerusalem ‘settled there at Judah’s Gate’. 
As to the al-baqar Gate in the ‘Prayers at the Gates’: in Mann, Texts, I, 459, and also in Gil, 
Shalem, 2(1975/6), 26f, the reading is incorrect: Bab Elqana ; according to Salmon b. 
Yeruhim, in his Commentary to Lamentations, (Feuerstein), XVII ff, in his explanation of 
the word parbar (1 Chr., xxvi:18), which according to him is derived from par benbaqar (‘a 
young bullock’), this gate ‘is known to this day’ by the name bab al-baqar, on the western 
side of the sanctuary ( al-quds\ the parbar of the Bible is in the west); through this gate they 
would bring in the sacrifices. It is not clear whether by quds he means the Temple Mount 
or Jerusalem; and possibly he is speaking of one of the city gates, and not of the Temple 
Mount. As to bab al- WaKd and al-Hdshimm, see the information in Ibn Khallikan, I, 234ff, 
on the gates built by ‘Abd al-Malik and al-Hajjaj ibn Yusuf, which I have mentioned 
above. As to bab al-Nabi or bab Muhammad, Gildemeister, ZDPV, 4(1881), 91, n. 20, 
mistakenly identified it with today’s Gate of the Maghribis. It is true that bab Buraq, which 
is the Barclay’s Gate beneath the Gate of the Maghribis (see more on this below), was 


643 



Comparison of the names of the gates of the Temple Mount 


Ibn al-Faqlh Ibn ‘Abd Rabbihi Al-MuqaddasI Nasir Khusraw ‘The guide of ‘The Prayers 

Palestine’ at the Gates’ 



(900) 

(930) 

(985) 

West 

Umm Khalid 

Da’ud 

al-Khidr 

Umm-Khalid 

al-Sakina 

Da’ud 

Da’ud 


Hitta 

Sulayman 

Hitta 

Hitta 

South 

al-Nabl 

Muhammad 

al-Nabl 

East 

al-Wadl 

al-Tawba 

Mihrab 

Maryam 


al-Rahma 

al-Rahma 

al-Rahma 

North 

(Magharat 

Ibrahim) 

al-Asbat 

al-Asbat 


(Mihrab 

Ya'qub) 

(Mihrab 

Zakariyya) 

al-Hashiml 

al-Hashimln 



al-Walld 

al-Walid 

Ibrahim 


(1047) 


al-Saqar 

al-Sakina 


David 

Da’ud 


Solomon 

Hitta 

al-Nabl 

Hulda 

al-Kohen 


(=al-Nabl) 
al-Akhmas 

al-Khamsa 

al- Ayn 

Water Gate 


al-Tawba 

al-Rahma 

(=Song Gate) 

(=Womens’ Gate) 

al-Rahma 


(=Nikanor 

al-Rahma 

al-Asbat 

Bab 

al-Abwab 

=the eastern) 



Hanna 

Isaac 

al-baqar 

Judah 


The order of listing the names is from the northern end of the western side southwards, then the southern side from the west to the east, the eastern side from the south to the 
north, the northern side from the east to the west. 





THE JEWISH QUARTERS OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 838-848] 

[843] It should be noted that a special place was accorded to the Hitta 
Gate in Muslim sources, in conjunction with what was said about it in the 
Koran in surat al-baqara (ii:58): ‘Since God said: enter this city and eat [of its 
fruits] in comfort, as much as you like, but enter the gate prostrating 
yourself, and saying: hitta [atonement!]. Then, I shall forgive you for your 
sins and reward the virtuous [among you]’. Muslim tradition interpreted 
these words of the Koran (addressed to the Children of Israel) as meaning 
Jerusalem, and the gate through which the Children of Israel were ordered 
to enter is none other than bab hitta. The word hitta was not a common 
Arabic word and the commentators tried to explain its meaning as a plea 
for atonement and forgiveness. The gate was low and whoever wished to 
enter had to bend down, and the gate would press down on those guilty of 
wicked deeds. In this way, the criminals were identified. The Children of 
Israel were ordered to say hitta (atonement!) on entering but they tried to 
outwit the order by saying hitta(!) sumqata (red wheat), or habbafisha‘ra (a 
grain in a hair) and the like. This gate was thus set apart from all the other 
gates of the Temple Mount, for Muslim tradition accorded it a special role 
in the atonement requested by the Children of Israel. 116 


sometimes called bab al-Nabv, see Schick, Beit al-Makias, 119f. Schematically, one can 
present the assumed locations of the gates as follows: 


Ibrahim al-asbat bab al-abwab 


al-Khidr f " 

mihrab 

1 


1 

Ya‘qub 

1 


Umm Khalid 1 


1 

al-rahma 

al-saqar 1 


1 

1 

al-tawba 

Da’ud | 


mihrab Maryam | 

al-wadi 

Sulayman f 
hitta 

ha-Kohen ]_ 


al-‘ayn 1 



al-Nabi Muhammad 

Hulda 

al-akhmas 



116 See on bab hitta : Tabari, Tafstr, I, 299; Mawsill, Nihaya, 53£F; Ibn Qutayba, Gharib, 50; 
idem , al-Qurtayn, 1,43; Abu ‘Ubayda, Majaz, I, 41; Turtushi, Hawadith, 21ff; Silafi, Fada’il 
(MS Cambridge Or Qq 91, part 2), fol. 78; ‘Ulayml, 381ff; Ibn Hajar al-‘Asqalani, Tafstr , 
71; idem, Fatlt , IX, 374; Ibn Kathir, Bidaya, I, 324; Musharraf, Fada’il , fol. 23b, (according 9 


645 







THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

[844] It is difficult to answer the question as to whether the Priest’s Gate 
and the bab hitta of Muslim tradition were one and the same, and how the 
latter stood in relation to the Hulda Gate in the south, mentioned in the 
Mishna. All the indications, however, point to the fact that the Priest’s 
Gate was in the west. 

While the Jewish sources viewed the Priest’s Gate as the most out¬ 
standing and important site in the environs of the Jewish quarter and the 
favoured place of worship of the Jews ofjerusalem apart from the Mount 
of Olives, we find that the Western Wall is almost not mentioned at all. 
The only source that mentions the wall during this period is the Scroll of 
Ahima'as according to which Samuel b. Palti’cl donated money also for 
the ‘oil for the Temple in the Western Wall for the altar within’. In other 
sources, we find no mention of the Western Wall for the simple reason that 
the area of the Western Wall was called after the gate in the wall within it, 
which was the Priest’s Gate. 

In the above-mentioned quotation from the Scroll of AhTma'as, Dinur 
tried to find a confirmation of his view that there was a synagogue on the 
Temple Mount. Actually, this quotation seems merely to justify the 
assumption that the synagogue (‘the altar’) was indeed close to the West¬ 
ern Wall. As to Dinur’s assumption concerning the synagogue on the 
Temple Mount, it has no real foundation in the sources. There is also no 
reason to believe that the Muslims would have permitted thejews to erect 
a synagogue on the Temple Mount. What was said in Solomon b. Judah’s 
letter to Jacob ha-me‘uttad b. Joseph, towards the end of 1015, in which 

to him, the gate was in Jericho at first and the Jews transferred it after the town was 
conquered and destroyed); see ibid, also 51b; Abu’l-Su‘ud, Tafsir, I, 179 (thejews used to 
say in Nabatl, that is, Aramaic: hitta sumqdtd , red wheat, instead of hitta, pleading for 
atonement); Ibn Hayyan, Tafsir, 1, 224; al-Khazin, Lubab, I, 56; SuyutI, Mu'tarak, II, 76; 
Hammam b. MUnabbih, Sahifa, 448; al-Naysaburi al-Qumml, Tafsir, I, 293ff; Ibn 
al-'Arabl, Muhadara, II, 371; Ibn al-jawzl, Zad, I, 86; Ibn ‘Abd Rabbihi, VI, 264; a Shiite 
source attributes this saying to Musa al-Kazim, one of the Shiite Imams: ‘Indeed I am for 
you [the believers] like bab hitta to the Children of Israel’, see Waram, Tanbih, 291. The 
source of these Muslim traditions has not yet been identified; cf. Rudolph, Abhangigheit, 
198; scholars have not given it much thought; Gildemeister, ZDPV, 4(1881), 91, men¬ 
tions them; see also; Leszynsky, Juden, 32, n. 1, who finds here a Jewish homiletic 
tradition referring to Deut., viii:8 (A land of wheat, and barley, etc . ..). In the opinion of 
Hirschfeld, New Researches, 107, there is in the Koranic verse, an echo of the description of 
the high priest entering the Holy of Holies ( Mishna, Yoma v.T), and the term hitta hints at 
the confession of the priest (ibid., iii:8, iv:2, vi:2). It is indeed a topic that still needs 
probing. It is worth noting the etymological proximity of the names Hulda and Hitta; 
from the semantic point of view, the root hid in Aramaic is similar to the Arabic htt. In 
Aramaic (particularly in Syriac), it also means to creep, to stoop, also huldat ha-molim in 
the PT (Yoma i, 38c, middle; Meg. iv, 75c, bottom) which requires a mezuza, apparently 
means a sort of low entrance, as meant by bab hitta (speaking of the wicket in the gate, the 
mesaulioti which was distorted there to molim, see Gil, Tarbiz, 44[1976/7], 27, n. 33). Cf. 
also: ‘God mahlid (i. e. opens a wicket) for them inside the earth and they roll likejars ... to 
Palestine’ (speaking of the Babylonian scholars after they die); see PT, Kil’ayim, ix, 32c, 


646 



THE JEWISH QUARTERS OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 838-848] 


Dinur also tried to find proof of his assumption, is to be understood very 
differently from his interpretation. Solomon b. Judah (who became Gaon 
only ten years later) states his disappointment that Jacob did not return to 
Jerusalem from Fustat, not for the ‘aseret (Shavuot) nor on the 9th of Av, 
and also ‘the holidays’ (of Tishri) passed without his appearance, and he 
wishes: ‘may our Rock . .. hasten my encounter with you in His Temple’, 
by which he was naturally referring to the days of the Messiah. In the 
continuation, he says ‘the splendid building built on it (on His Temple) 
collapsed’. This occurred, according to him, on Sunday, 17 Elul; as we 
have seen above (in sec. 580) he is referring to the earthquake which 
occurred on 4 September 1015, and caused the caving in of the Dome of 
the Rock, an event that is also recorded in Arab chronicles. Clearly it is the 
Dome of the Rock to which Solomon b. Judah referred in his letter, and 
not a synagogue. 117 

[845] On this question, that of the site of the synagogue of the Jews of 
Jerusalem and its alleged proximity to the Western Wall, as it emerges 
from the text of the Scroll of Ahlma‘as, it should be noted that the 
synagogue is mentioned in letters in my collection. Solomon b. Judah 
writes about a pronouncement of excommunication: ‘and he was excom¬ 
municated in the synagogue’. He explicitly mentions the synagogue in his 
description of the collapse of the wall, and says that the people were then in 
the synagogue (‘and children and women were coming and going’), and it 
was the time for the reading of the Torah. Abraham, son of the Gaon, calls 
the synagogue al-kants (or perhaps: al-kunays) in Arabic. He, together with 
the av-bet-dm, goes down there, and so does the head of the yeshiva. Joseph 
ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon also writes about going down to the kantsa. 
Thejerusalemite ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel writes to a relative in Fustat, ‘Eli 
ha-Kohen b. Hayyim, that he prays for everyone on rosh hodesh (the first 
day of the month) jx’l-kams, in the synagogue. Avon b. Sedaqa writes in 
two of his letters about al-knysyd, and we have already seen that we are to 
read kenesiya i.e., the synagogue. 

top (the parallel version ibid., Ket., xii, 35b is an‘improved’ one). One can also learn from 
this that there was no connection between Hulda the Prophetess and the Hulda Gates. 
1,7 One should note that the Mishna (Middot iii:l) speaks of only one gate in the west, the 
Kiponos Gate, while Josephus, Antiquities, XV, 410, says there were four gates in the 
western part of the Temple Mount. Hence this question remains something of a mystery. 
It strikes one, though at this stage it cannot be proven, that the Priest’s Gate is the same as 
the Hulda Gates and bab hitta in Muslim tradition. It is possible that the Mishna meant that 
the Hulda gates were in the southern part of the western side. As to the Muslim tradition, 
it may have absorbed some remnants of ajewish tradition with regard to the Hulda gates. 
(Today bab hitta is shown in the north of the Temple Mount, and the ancient traditions 
have been forgotten, according to which it was in the south, as one can see from the 
sources quoted above. ‘Ulaymi, 383, claimed that it was close to rnihrab Maryam in the 
south-eastern corner of the Mount.) See Megillat Ahtma’as, 37;Dinur, Zion (ha-me’assef), 
3(1926/7), 62, 67£f. On the use of ‘altar’ meaning synagogue, cf. Klar, Megillat Ahim'as, 


647 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


In that same letter, Joseph ha-Kohen mentions alongside the synagogue 
( al-kantsa ), al-maghdra , the cave. Despite the letter’s poor condition, it is 
easy to discern that ‘the cave’ is used as a synonym for the synagogue. 
Indeed, ‘the cave’ is frequently mentioned in the sources as the place where 
the Jews of Jerusalem congregate, and it is clear that they are referring to 
the synagogue. Solomon b. Judah writes to Ephraim b. Shemaria that on 
the morrow after receiving his letter, they hastened to declare his rival 
excommunicated in Jerusalem: ‘On Monday, we and a large public gath¬ 
ered in the cave and we took out the scrolls of the Torah and banned all 
those ‘that decree unrighteous decrees’ (Is., x:l). After mentioning the 
collapse of a wall which caused damage to the synagogue, he writes, 
following the work of reconstruction, ‘the cave was restored’. As to the 
collapse, it occurred on the first day of Passover, when the synagogue was 
full of people, but no one was injured. It seems that he is referring to the 
collapse of part of the Temple Mount wall, that is, the Western Wall. 
According to the Gaon, the wall collapsed along a stretch of some 15 cubits 
(about nine metres) and some 20 or more layers. Apparently, this was 
written in 1034, and from this we understand that the caving in of the wall 
perhaps occurred on Passover of the same year, 7 April. Two further 
letters of the Gaon contain details of the reconstruction work, clearing the 
debris from the road, and the beginning of laying the foundations, with 
many Jews of Jerusalem lending a helping hand to clear away the remains 
of the wall along a stretch of30 cubits (some 18 metres) nearly 20 cubits (12 
metres) wide. The thickness of the wall is also mentioned: I-IV 2 cubits. 
They used 62 beams, 600 planks, and ‘mosaics’ (stone slabs?). Financial 
assistance for this work came from Fustat and Tyre. This collapse is 
explicitly mentioned in Ibn al-jawzl, who links it with the earthquake 
which occurred on 5 December 1033 (described above in sec. 595), and 
notes that part of the wall of bayt al-maqdis fell in (it is difficult to know 
whether he means the wall of the city or the wall of the Temple Mount, 
though the latter seems most likely) and a large part of mihrab Da’ud, 
meaning the area of the Temple Mount. Apparently what the Gaon 
describes is correct, that is that some months after the earthquake, the 
collapse of the wall occurred, as a belated consequence. 

The Maghribi merchant Moses b. Jacob, writing in June 1053 to Neh- 
orai b. Nissim, requests that he buy ‘dark mats in Alexandria’ that he send 
them to Jerusalem as soon as possible, ‘for they are a donation (muqaddasa) 
to the cave’. Abraham b. David b. Sughmar blames his rivals in Fustat for 
wasting money belonging to ‘the cave’ (mdl al-maghdra) and it is obvious 

173, who quotes a similar usage in a poem of ha-Kallir, cf. also Yehuda, Zion (ha- 

me’assef), 3(1928/9), 121, n. 5. Solomon b. Judah’s letter: 54, lines 27-30; cf. Mann, 

Texts, I, 313ff; II, 20, n. 35. 


648 



THE JEWISH QUARTERS OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 838-848) 


that he is again referring to money donated to the synagogue in Jerusalem. 
In the will of Wuhsha, a stout-hearted woman of Fustat, she bequeaths 25 
dinars lil-maghara, to the cave, and the intention is the same as above. 118 

[846] One may assume that al-MuqaddasI is referring to the synagogue 
of the Jews of Jerusalem when, towards the end of the tenth century, he 
describes ‘a cave under the rock’ with room for 69 people. A more reliable 
version, preserved in Yaqut (who copied from al-MuqaddasI), speaks of 
960 people. As in many other similar instances, the Muslim writers, or the 
scribes who copied the manuscripts, did not take the trouble to mention 
that they were speaking ofjews, as this description would seem to call for. 
Apparently, in the late Middle Ages, this underground hall was called 
masjid Da’ud and evidently this ‘cave’, used as a synagogue by the Jews of 
Jerusalem, is the underground hall behind Barclay’s Gate, measuring 12 
by 6 metres, called by recent generations of Muslims masjid al-Burdq. 

It is also worth noting what Samuel b. Samson wrote in 1211 about the 
gate of the Western Wall which had appended to it a large hall in the 
‘foundation of the Temple’. The priests would go, he writes, via this gate 
of the Western Wall through a tunnel to ‘Eyn ‘Eytam, where ‘the house of 
immersion’ was situated. The name ‘Eyn ‘Eytam in this tradition is 
puzzling, and Tobler considered it void of any credibility, but this text is 
evidently influenced by the Babylonian Talmud (Zev. 54b), about the 
spring ‘Eyn Eytam which was at a higher altitude than the Temple, and it 
is implied that this is the source of its water supply. Evidently, Samuel b. 
Samson’s story (a little more than 100 years after the annihilation of the 
Jewish population of Jerusalem) hints at a tradition which aimed at ex¬ 
plaining the designation ‘the Priest’s Gate’. Possibly that hall ‘in the 
foundations of the Temple’ is none other than the ‘cave’, that is, the 
synagogue. 

Earlier I quoted Avon b. Sedaqa concerning the fact that the authorities 


1,8 The excommunication in the synagogue: 78 , a, line 29. The collapse: 118 , line 14. 
Abraham son of the Gaon: 141 , lines 3, 6, 8; see also 182 , line 4: Abraham son of the Gaon 
goes to al-kants. Joseph ha-Kohen: 409 , lines 10-1 1 . Avon b. Sedaqa; 500 , b, line 21; 501 , 
a, lines 26, 31. We have seen above that the synagogue ofjerusalem is mentioned in the 
episode of the argument between the Jews and the Christians which came before the 
church council in Erfurt (932); there they call the synagogue sacellum, which in Mediaeval 
Latin means approximately ‘a little prayer-house’; also in the letter of the yeshiva, 420 , c, 
line 8, it is called ‘the little temple’. The letter to Ephraim b. Shemaria: 79 , lines 27-29. 
The restoration of‘the cave’: 120 , a, line 23; the collapse I interpreted somewhat differ¬ 
ently elsewhere (mainly the date): Gil, Shalem, 2(1975/6), 30, n. 41. The restoration work: 
119 , 120 ; Ibn al-Jawzt, Muntazam, VIII, 77, copied from him by Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, 12, 
36. Moses b. Jacob: 460 , b. Wuhsha’s will: TS Arabic Box 4, f. 5, a, lines 13-16, edited by 
Goitein, JQR Anniversary Volume, 239ff; he assumed that the cemetery in Fustat was being 
referred to; see also idem, Mediterranean Society, III, 349. If my interpretation is correct, the 
will was written before the Crusaders’ conquest, whereas Goitein assumed that it was 
written after that. 


649 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

did not permit Jewish funerals to pass in front of dar al-jama‘a, demanding 
instead that they go through the Zion Gate or the Siloam Gate, or pay two 
dinars for every funeral. Indeed, the writer continues, the Jews feared to 
pass through these gates because of the danger of being cursed or storied. 
So great was their fear that they decided to bury a deceased woman in one 
of her own houses or shops. Finally, they bribed the guard and took the 
corpse out at night to the Samaritiqa, where the community congregated; 
through the Samaritiqa, they took the deceased to the graves. I shall try to 
interpret what emerges from Avon’s account. It is implied that the usual 
funeral route was as follows: it moved northwards, passed in front of the 
Priest’s Gate (that is, the Western Wall) and dar al-jamd‘a, and in order to 
reach the graves, which were in the Kidron Valley or on the Mount of 
Olives, passed through the Christian quarters in the north of the city, 
thereby circumambulating the Temple Mount and its gates, and perhaps 
leaving through the Sheep Gate (which is bdb al-asbat, the Tribes’ Gate, 
that is St Stephen’s Gate, or today’s Lions’ Gate). One can imagine that the 
incident during Daniel b. Azariah’s funeral, hinted at in the same letter, 
was connected with passing through the Christian quarter, and it is also 
possible that the two dinars were intended to provide proper protection 
when they were passing through, or perhaps this was a toll for passing 
through the wall built around the Christian quarter, which was completed 
in 1063, that is one year prior to our letter, and a year or more after the 
death of Daniel b. Azariah. From then on, the Jews were asked to turn 
southward, through one of the southern gates. From there, they had to 
reach the Kidron Valley and turn northward until they came to the burial 
site. 119 

[847] One should remember that evidently the southern gates of the 
city, the Zion Gate (the western) and the Siloam Gate (the eastern) were, in 
the period under discussion, very much to the south of today’s wall, for it 
emerges that Eudocia’s wall was still standing at the time. This wall passed 
through the area of Mount Zion and turned on its slope eastward until the 
Siloam pool and from there to the south-eastern corner of the Temple 
Mount. We have seen that according to Theophanes, the caliph Marwan 
destroyed the walls of Jerusalem in 745; hence we must assume that they 
were rebuilt after that, but we have no details pertaining to the matter. 

Tsafrir has tried to prove that Eudocia’s wall no longer existed in the 
period under discussion here. Fie based his argument on passages about 

119 MuqaddasI, Aqalhti , 171; Yaqut, Buldatt, IV, 594, 598; on the underground structure near 
the Western Wall, see also: Clermont-Ganneau, Archaeological Researches, I, 165f. The 
later Middle Ages: KhafajI, II, 296. See Solomon b. Samson’s letter in Yaari, Iggarot, 78; 
cf.: Tobler, Topographie, II, 865. The matter of the funerals, see 500 , lines 7ff. The 
deceased was the sister-in-law of the Gaon, Elijah ha-Kohenb. Solomon (see ibid., lines 4, 
14). 


650 



THE JEWISH QUARTERS OF JERUSALEM [SECS. 838-848] 


the Silwan spring in Muqaddasi, Nasir Khusraw and Yaqut, and claimed 
that these passages proved that the pool of Siloam was already at that time 
outside the city. However, these writers do not refer to the pool of Siloam 
itself. Muqaddasi notes that Silwan is a place in the rabad of Jerusalem and 
that beneath it runs the spring which waters the gardens in the neigh¬ 
bourhood. It is clear that he is not referring to the pool but to the spring. 
The literal meaning of the word rabad is that area beneath the fortress of a 
town, its open surroundings. Yaqut also speaks of a spring beyond the 
city, in wadi Jahnam, that is, the Kidron Valley. Nasir Khusraw also writes 
of a spring welling from a rock on the slope of the mountain, half a farsakh 
(some three kilometres) south of the city, called the Silwan spring. It is 
obvious that these three writers did not mean the pool of Siloam but the 
bi’r Ayyub (‘Eyn Rogel). Today, there is no way of determining the point 
from which ‘Eyn Rogel was issuing at that time, nor can one know exactly 
Nasir Khusraw’s point of departure at the time, whether he estimated the 
distance from the city wall or from the Temple Mount. At any rate, as 
these writers were not referring to the Siloam pool, it is difficult on the 
basis of their accounts to arrive at any conclusion with regard to Eudocia’s 
wall. 

We have no idea why the Jews were afraid of going to the burial site 
through the southern gates. Perhaps there were Bedouin tents there. It is 
nevertheless clear from the text of the letter that the Jews preferred a third 
route with less danger (though still at night); this being through the 
Samareitike, the Karaite quarter discussed above (sec. 668). This means 
that instead of turning northward or southward, they preferred to turn 
eastward and pay bribes in order that the gate of the city wall would be 
open to them at night. We do not know the name of that gate, but one can 
assume that it was at the southern comer of the eastern wall of the city. 
Hence we learn that the Jewish quarter evidently stretched from the 
proximity of the south-western sector of the Temple Mount southward, 
until the Zion and Siloam Gates of that time, and the southern section of 
the eastern city wall was the eastern border of the quarter. 120 

[848] As to the Karaite quarter, it emerges that it was outside the wall. 

120 See: Crowfoot, PEFQ, 77(1945), 67ff, 77. On the enterprise of Eudocia, Theodosius’ 
wife, see: Evagrius, 24S3; Nicephorus, 146, 1240. This latter source says that Eudocia 
widened (and not only restored) the walls of Jerusalem: eurytiasa kai ananeosasa. See also 
Antoninus Placentinus (in Tobler, Itinera, I, 105) who says that the Siloam pool was then 
also within the city ( infra civitatem inclusa est) and one can learn from this that it was 
included within the wall. Cf. on the enterprises of Eudocia in Jerusalem and other places 
in Palestine, and the restoration of the walls ofjerusalem: Couret, La Palestine , 119f, and 
see the sources listed therein nn. 1—3. SeeTsafrir, IEJ, 27(1977), 157; Muqaddasi, Aqaltm, 
171; Yaqut, Buldan, IV, 594; Nasir Khusraw, 21. The meaning of rabad may be under¬ 
stood from many literary sources of the Middle Ages; in TabaranI, Mujam, II, 16 the term 
is clearly explained as the opposite of aUa (the upper part). An Arabic commentary 


651 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

As we have seen above, the Karaites were indeed ‘new immigrants’ in 
Jerusalem. They began to arrive injerusalem more than 200 years after the 
return of thejews to the city commenced, and there was no room for them 
within the wall. In the sources, it says that the Karaite quarter was in 
the sela‘ ha-elef ha-yevusi, the Karaites’ version of josh., xviii:28: (‘Zelah, 
Eleph andjebusi which is injerusalem’, etc.). ( Sela‘ means rib, and also the 
slope of a mountain.) This obviously refers to the area of the ‘city of 
David’, south of the Temple Mount. This is also the view of the com¬ 
mentary to Megillat Ta'anit , evidently written in the Middle Ages, on the 
passage in the Megilla: ‘on the 23rd (of Nisan), the people of the Haqra left 
Jerusalem’; here the commentary says: ‘as it is written: David took the 
strong hold of Zion, the same is the City of David (2 Sam., v:7). This is 
now the place of the Karaites*. A fragment from the commentary of the 
Karaite Salmon b. Yeruhim to Lam., ii:20, where it speaks of the murder 
of Zechariah b. Jehoiada in the Temple (2 Chr., xxiv:25), points to the 
shared identity of the Samareitike, the selci', and the karat al-mashariqa (the 
easterners’ quarter): ‘and this Zechariah, may he rest in peace, is buried in 
Noble Jerusalem, in Samaritiqa, which is the sela‘ ha-elef ha-yeviisT, known 
today as the quarter of the easterners, as Mevorakh b. Nathan b. Nisan, of 
blessed memory, said; for this Mevorakh, may God have mercy on his 
soul, said in one of his dirges: and I wept opposite the grave of Zechariah 
son ofjehoiada, whose grave is known, in the sela‘ ha-elef, etc. The same 
verse of Mevorakh b. Nathan was also quoted by another Karaite com¬ 
mentator, Yefetb. ‘All. 

We have a number of supporting arguments which help us define the 
location of the Karaite quarter: the City of David, Zechariah’s grave, and 
the Samareitike. The sites of Zechariah’s grave and the Samareitike are 
known to us from the discussion on the Christians (sec. 668). In the 
above-mentioned fragment of Avon b. Sedaqa’s letter, we have seen that 
the funeral passed into the Karaite quarter at night, apparently through a 
gate in the eastern wall of the city. It appears, then, that the Karaite quarter 
was outside the wall, on the eastern slope of the Ophel, at the place 
commonly called ‘the city of David’ even today. The wall separated the 
Rabbanite quarter from that of the Karaites. Against this background, we 
can more easily understand the verses of the poet who wrote ‘the ancient 
questions’: ‘indeed I was zealous for the sanctity of my congregation, and 

on the Bible could also add to one’s understanding of the word rabad: ha-perazm was 
interpreted as al-rabadiym, as Moses said: ‘all these cities were fenced with high walls, 
beside unwalled towns’ {‘are ha-perdzi ; Deut., iii:5). See DK 207g, line 4 from bottom. 
Goldziher also wrote on rabad, and according to him it means: outside the inhabited part 
of the city (a not very precise definition) and he quotes an example from the Aghant, 
concerning a woman who was menstruating and they excluded her to the rabad, see RBJ, 
28(1894), 86. On bi’r Ayyuh see Hecker, Sefer Yerushalayim, I, 198f. Farsakh, seeHinz, 62. 


652 



THE JEWISH QUARTERS OF JERUS ALEM [SECS. 838-848] 

my wrath was kindled, against the ‘limping one’ ( sole'a , from the root 
sela\ a pejorative nickname for the Karaites), who sits joining me on the 
opposite side’, etc. Thus we find that the two congregations were adjacent 
to one another, with the wall of the city dividing them. 121 


The geonim of Palestine 

The elder geonim 

[849] The most ancient genealogical tree of the Palestine geonim is 
found in the Seder ‘olam zuta. Mar Zutra, son of the exilarch Mar Zutra, 
emigrated to Palestine from Babylonia and became ‘head of the Sanhedrin’ 
in the year 520. The Hebrew version of the chronicle lists his descendants, 
and it is not clear whether all, or only some of them, succeeded to the 
position of Gaon: Guriya, Zutra, Jacob, Shemaiah, Nina, MIgas, MIsa, 
Nehemiah, Avdlml, Jacob (and his brother Pinhas) and Hasuv. In 

121 See the Megillat Ta'anit: Lichtenstein, HUCA, $-9 (1931/2), 327; cf. Munk,JA, 4eser., t. 
15(1850), 310, n. 3; Poznanski, Yerushalayim (Luncz), 10(1913/4), 96, 98; Mann, Jews, I, 
274ff; idem, Texts, 1, 317, n. 20; Braslavi, BJPES, 5(1936/8), 27ff. On Mevorakh h. 
Nathan cf.: Pinsker, Liqqute qadmoniyot, I, 105; Poznanski, Yerushalayim (Luncz), 
10(1913/4), 96: Salmonb. Yeruhim took the passage from the dirge beginning: ‘gatherye 
from everywhere, every woman and every man, to wail with me (at the place) facing the 
grave of a prophet killed on a day of calamity’ (see in Pinsker, ibid., II, 139). Poznanski 
questions whether this Mevorakh was a Karaite, because in the Karaite prayer book 
(where there are some of his piyyutim) he is called Mevorakh b. Nathan b. Nisan ha-Levi 
he-hdver, and one of his poems is based on the aggada from Pesiqata Rabbati. See the names 
of his poems in Davidson, Osar. One should note that in a letter from the year 1100: 577, 
b, lines 11-12, a Karaite named Abu’l-Khayr Mubarak (= Mevorakh) b. Hiba (= Nathan) 
b. Nisan is mentioned; and Nathan (his father, evidently) b. Nisan ha-Levi ha-melammed is 
mentioned in a Karaite marriage deed drawn up in Jerusalem: 305, line 37. For documen¬ 
tation on the Karaite quarter, one should add the formulae of a Karaite marriage deed in 
florid Hebrew, in the handwriting of the abovemen tioned Moses b. Isaac, where the place 
is noted: ‘in the sela‘ ha-elef in Jerusalem, the Holy City’. See ULC Or Box 13, No. 52. 
The al-mashariqa quarter still existed in the 13th century and was then inhabited by 
Christians; see Ibn al-Qiftl, 379 (the article ‘Ya'qub b. Siqlan al-Nasranl al-Maqdisi 
al-Mashriql [‘the eastern Christian Jerusalemite’; he died in AH 626, that is AD 1229]): 
‘The eastern Christians in Jerusalem come from the Balqa' region (southern Trans¬ 
jordan) and from ‘Amman and they are called easterners because they are in the area 
which is to the east ofjerusalem, called the quarter of the easterners’. Drori, Peraqim, 172, 
quotes a passage from ‘Ulayml on the quarter ofthe easterners in his time (ca. 1500), when 
this name was applied to the north-eastern part of the city, inhabited by people from 
Persia and Central Asia. His note there: ‘M. Gil is of another opinion’, etc., is not to the 
point, for nowhere have I mentioned this source; and one should note the enormous 
differences in time: the Karaites, in the tenth century; Ibn al-Qiftl, the 13th; ‘Ulayml, the 
end ofthe fifteenth century. See ‘the ancient questions’: Schechter, JQR, 13(1901), 364. 
Prawer, Zion, 12(1947), 143ff arrives at the conclusion that the Karaite quarter was on the 
slope of the Temple Mount. One should also note Simon b. Saul al-TulaytulTs letter, 
which says: ‘they went up to Samaritiqa’ when speaking of Karaites who arrived in 
Jerusalem, see: 457, a, margin right, fines 7-8. 


653 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

addition, three sons of Abaye (AvdimI?) are mentioned, Jacob, Pinhas and 
Azariah. According to one version, Hasuv was the son of Jacob, and 
according to another, he was the son of Pinhas. This latter Pinhas was 
possibly the Pinhas who was head of the yeshiva, one of the masoretes of 
Tiberias (mentioned in sec. 288). In all, ten generations are listed after Mar 
Zutra, and taking an average of twenty-five years per generation, this 
would add up to some 250 years, which brings us roughly to the year 800. 

After this period, of which only names have remained, we can compose 
an assumed list of the names of geonim only from the mid-ninth century 
onwards, thanks to a tiny fragment preserved from a treatise or letter, 
written by Sahlan b. Abraham, leader of the ‘Babylonians’ in Fustat. The 
chronological departure point for fixing the times of the geonim men¬ 
tioned in this list is the affair of the calendrical dispute which I have 
reviewed above. Today, weknowthenameofthesonofMeir, the rival of 
Saadia Gaon - he was Aaron. ‘Meir and his son Aaron Gaon’ mentioned in 
that fragment are thus undoubtedly the father and son who were the 
geonim during the dispute. It seems that the father, Meir Gaon b. Aaron, 
was head of the Palestinian yeshiva and his son Aaron would make the 
public pronouncements and act as chief spokesman. This emerges from 
what Saadia Gaon wrote: ‘and he sent (the Palestinian Gaon) his son in the 
seventh month of the year two [hundred and thirty ]-three and he came to 
■Jerusalem’. That is to say that Meir Gaon sent his son Aaron (he is Ben 
Meir in the polemical literature) to Jerusalem (evidently from Tiberias). 
We find the following quotation in the account of Saadia Gaon, from ‘the 
copy of the letter sent by the scholars (i.e. the Babylonians) to him (to the 
Palestinian Gaon), from the place of their gathering, that is Babylonia: 
greetings to the head of the havura, to your son, and brother, and all that 
are in your retinue: we could hardly believe the rumour which reached us, 
that your son fixed the holiday not as prescribed by the law; even if you say 
that your son made a mistake, lift up your eyes to our Holy one, and have 
mercy on us and on your son’, etc. Here too he is referring to Meir Gaon 
and his son Aaron. 

The other letter from Babylonia to Palestine on the same matter, 
claiming that the scholars of Babylonia had the right to decide on the order 
of the calendar, also mentions several times the ‘head of the yeshiva’, 
referring, one may assume, to Meir Gaon. However, in all the sources on 
the subject of the calendar dispute, one cannot find Ben Meir being called 
head of the yeshiva or Gaon and it is now obvious why this was so. Meir 
Gaon is evidently also the author of the letter to Babylonia in which he 
mentions the journey of the Palestinian Gaon to Babylonia in order to ask 
for aid for his yeshiva against the ‘progeny of‘Anan, the enemies’, and it is 
possible that it is he who helped the people of the Pumbedita yeshiva of 


654 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

Mevasser Gaon’s faction in their struggle against David b. Zakkai, the 
exilarch, and against Kohen Sedeq (‘against those who plotted against 
you’). These contacts could have occurred after 917, the year which 
marked the death of Judah, the Pumbedita Gaon [grandfather of Sherira 
Gaon]. Meir Gaon is evidently the one who describes the suffering his 
forefathers endured at the hands of the descendants of ‘Anan, and he 
mentions R. Musa, who was killed in the ‘azara (the synagogue?) and ‘our 
fathers R. Meir and R. Moses’. We shall soon see that these latter three 
lived during the mid-ninth century. 122 

[850] One should note that Sahlan b. Abraham, the compiler of the list, 
draws our attention to the fact that two of the geonim mentioned there 
‘have already been dealt with above’: and likewise, refers to ‘Aaron b. 
Moses b. Meir mentioned above’. This refers to the description of the 
lineage of Joseph ha-Kohen, in which this Aaron is mentioned, and in 
writing ‘Meir and his aforementioned son Aaron Gaon’, he refers to that 
part of the manuscript which is missing. One of course cannot discern 
why he would have mentioned Aaron b. Meir’s name in the missing part 
of the document; this may have had some connection with the transfer of 
the yeshiva from Tiberias to Jerusalem. On this matter, it is worth looking 
into the following genealogical tree based on the list from which we can 
get some idea of the time of Joseph ha-Kohen Gaon b. Yohai, son of the 
sister of Aaron b. Moses b. Meir, whom he places at the head of the list. 

Although one should perhaps place Isaac Gaon between Aaron (I) Gaon 
and Meir (II) Gaon, the document does not say that there was any family 
relationship between them. At any rate, we see that Joseph ha-Kohen 
Gaon b. Yohai was more or less a contemporary of Meir (II) and his son 
Aaron (II) Gaon, that is, the geonim who held office during the calendar 

122 Seder ‘olam ziila, in Neubauer, Mediaeval Jewish Chronicle, I, 178; II, 73, 76, and cf. the 
discussion in Mann, Jews, I, 58f., and the references there to some earlier studies. The 
fragment in the handwriting of Sahlan: 3 . Aaron b. Meir is mentioned in a letter of Sherira 
Gaon: MS Strasbourg, Cat. Wickersheimer, No. 4038, f. 6:.\ line 4, edited by Mann, 
HUCA Jubilee Volume (1925), 248. See above, sec. 784, and: Bornstein, Sokolow Jubilee 
Volume, 63, 74, 105ff; Mann, Jews, I, 63, n. 1, assumed that the son of Ben Meir was being 
referred to and drew the conclusion that Ben Meir himself stayed in Ramla and sent his 
son to Jerusalem; but the more credible view is that of Bornstein (ibid., n. 3), that the 
Palestinian Gaon still stayed in Tiberias at the time. Thus one must attribute the letters 
from Palestine remaining from the time of the dispute to the period when Meir held office 
as Gaon, though some of them were written by his son, according to Saadia Gaon, in 
Bornstein, ibid., 116: ‘we therefore ordered a gathering of the heads and aluftm . . . and 
took advice how to overcome this enormous obstacle caused by Ben Meir and thwart his 
plot. They said: we cannot destroy all the copies written by Ben Meir about this matter to 
all localities. Moreover, his letter may have been copied amongst the people. However, 
they recommended writing this epistle to you ... to inform you of the deed of this Ben 
Meir... as Ben Meir has invented. ’ As to the contacts with Babylonia which preceded the 
calendar dispute, see Mann. Tarbiz, 5(1933/4), 148-157, and especially 151, 154. See also 
the sources in Guillaume, JQR, NS 5(1914/5), 552—555; cf. also Mann, Jews, I, 57, n. 1. 


6SS 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


Meir (I) 

I 

Moses 


Father of Yohai (a Kohen) 


■ Aaron’s sister 


Aaron (I) Gaon 

I 


Yohai (ha-Kohen) 

I 

Joseph ha-Kohen Gaon 

Genealogical tree of the early geonim 


Meir (II) Gaon 

I 

Aaron (II) Gaon 


dispute. Joseph ha-Kohen’s status as Gaon still remains something of a 
puzzle for the time being. One cannot identify him with Joseph ha-Kohen 
b. ‘Ezrun, for their fathers’ names were different and it does not seem to be 
chronologically consistent. Perhaps there was a rift in the Palestinian 
yeshiva at the time of, or due to, the calendar dispute and a rival Gaon 
appeared on the scene. The major account of the affair was undoubtedly 
included in the first part of the manuscript, which is not available, and it is 
in connection with this account that Sahlan went on listing the geonim of 
Palestine. It is possible that the priestly geonim found in the list beginning 
with Aaron ha-Kohen, were members of the family of that same Joseph 
ha-Kohen b. Yohai, but as we shall see below, the dynasty of priestly 
geonim which we find in the eleventh century did not stem from this 
family. 123 

[851] We know little about Meir Gaon and his son Aaron, apart from 
their involvement in the calendar dispute. It seems that in the period under 
discussion, a quire containing queries and responsa was known and at¬ 
tributed to Ben Meir. A number of Geniza documents from the eleventh 
century mention offspring of the family of Meir Gaon: Solomon he-haver 
b. Meir rosh ha-seder, great-grandson of Meir head of the yeshiva Ge’on 
Ya’aqov; Solomon, son of Isaac great-grandson of Meir Gaon; Isaac b. 
Solomon he-haver b. Meir Gaon; Moses ha-Sofer (‘the scribe’), son of 
Isaac he-haver, son of Solomon he-haver, son of Meir Gaon. The genea¬ 
logical tree of the family according to the data in the Geniza is outlined as 
follows: 

123 This discussion is based on the abovementioned fragment, 3. Abramson, Ba-merkazim, 
32, proposed identifying Joseph ha-Kohen b. Yohai with b. ‘Ezrun. See further (sec. 852) 
the assumed list of the Palestinian geonim, based on 3. The fragment TS NS 194.92 also 
confirms the fact that the Palestinian Gaon during the calendar dispute was Meir, and it 
has interesting evidence on the division between Meir Gaon and the priestly family who 
were his rivals over the leadership of the Palestinian yeshiva. Fleischer, in his article in 
Zion, 49(1984), 385, is right in assuming that the family ofjoseph ha-Kohen b. Yohai is 
meant. 


656 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 
Meir Gaon 


.... 1 

1 

Aaron Gaon 

1 

1 

Isaac 

1 

| 

Solomon he-haver 

1 

1 

Abraham Gaon 

1 

Solomon (the poet) 

1 

Isaac he-haver 

1 



1 

Moses the scribe 


Genealogical tree of Meir Gaott’s offspring 

We do not know who was the father of Meir rosh ha-seder, father of 
Solomon he-haver, from among those mentioned here. Solomon he- 
haver b. Meir rosh ha-seder was Ephraim b. Shemaria’s rival within the 
‘Palestinian’ congregation in Fustat. Solomon b. Judah writes to Ephraim 
b. Shemaria: ‘For Solomon b. Meir has made peace with the band of 
plotters’. Nathan b. Abraham, Solomon b. Judah’s competitor, writes to 
Berakha b. Rawh and expresses his anger about al-sabi (the youth) b. Meir, 
who evidently joined the opposing faction in the struggle for the seat of the 
Gaon, but then changed his mind and joined him again, as we shall see in 
the discussion on that dispute. 124 

[852] As to Semah, the nasi and head of the yeshiva, it is clear that he 
stems from the exilarchic family, as one can see from the title nast. He and 
his brother Jehoshaphat are the first whose names are known to us after the 
dynasty of Mar Zutra, knowledge of which ceased at one point, as we have 
seen above, and we know of no uninterrupted family connection between 

124 Responsa of Ben Meir: see TS 10 K 20, f. 9, fol. 2a, verso, lines 8-9; Mann understood it as 
a responsum to the queries of Ben Meir, perhaps answered by Saadia Gaon, but it seems 
that his interpretation is not correct. Solomon he-haver b. Meir rosh ha-seder. TS 8 J 14, 
f. 24 (the beginning of a letter to Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn Furat); 604 (a deed, 
Solomon b. Isaac great-grandson of Meir Gaon signed its validation); cf. Mann, Jews, II, 
54f. Solomon b. Isaac he-haver signed the piyyut: Bodl 2708/1 fs. 36-37, in Zulay, 
Yedi'ot, 5(1938/9), 175ff. Isaac he-haver b. Solomon he-haver: see a colophon from 1001 
edited by Assaf, Mi-sijrut ha-ge’omm, 206. Mann, Jews (MS), II, 52: MS Harkavy R No. 
67, two leaves which contain the end of kitab al-shara’i‘ (Book of the Laws), in the 
colophon: ‘I Isaac b. Solomon he-ljaver b. Meir Gaon, may he rest in Paradise, wrote this 
for me’ etc.; ‘finished Monday in the month of Iyar in the first year of the sabbatical cycle, 
which is 4761 of the creation’ (28 April AD 1001). The Isaac (the father of Moses ha-So£er) 
evidently lived in Acre, see 222, lines 8, 10: al-hdverR. Isaac. Moses ha-Sofer signs in 224, 
which is a letter to Abraham b. Sahl al-Tustarl, whose help he requests in order to be able 
to travel to his father, Isaac he-haver, evidently in Acre; he is mentioned also in TS 8 J 8, 
f. 6, in Mann, Jett'S, I, 54; see also TS 10 J 26, f. 6 (ibid., II, 55), where the name of‘Ishaq 
(thus it is written, as Mann assumed, ibid.) he-haver great-grandson of Meir Gaon’ has 
been preserved (what I have written on this matter in Tarbiz, 44 [1974/5], 149, n. 31, has 
to be emended). The letter of Solomon b. Judah: 129, margin. Nathan b. Abraham: 183, 
line 9; ‘al-haver b. Meir’ is also mentioned in a document of the heqdesh in Fustat, from 
the end of 1039, see document no. 11, a, line 17, in my book: Gil, Documents, 168. 


657 




THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


them. We find the lineage of ‘Semah the nasi and head of the yeshiva’ in the 
Geniza; his name and titles are exactly identical with what we find in 
Sahlan b. Abraham’s list. From this list, we learn that this Semah was the 
son of Josiah b. Saul b. ‘Anan b. David b. Hasdai b. Bustanai, that is, he 
was a descendant of Bustanai, exilarch at the time of the Muslim conquest, 
through his son Hasdai (who was not the son of the Persian wife of 
Bustanai but the son of the Jewish wife), and was the great-grandson of 
‘Anan, considered the founder of Karaism. On the other hand, we have 
before us Karaite lists ofexilarchs, mentioning another son ofjosiah father 
of Semah, Jehoshaphat; and this Jehoshaphat, Semah’s brother, is also 
called there ‘the great nasi Jehoshaphat, head of the yeshiva Ge’on Ya‘a- 
qov’, We may assume that Jehoshaphat was the elder and preceded his 
brother Semah. How are we to understand the surprising fact that people 
of the exilarchic family who were considered Karaites and were descend¬ 
ants of ‘Anan, headed the Palestinian yeshiva? Poznanski was of the 
opinion that the Karaites had a yeshiva, which they called ‘yeshivat Ge’on 
Ya‘aqov’, despite their hatred for the Rabbanite yeshivot of Babylonia. 
Mann transferred the events to Jerusalem and assumed that the two 
brothers, Jehoshaphat and Semah, sons ofjosiah, set up a rival yeshiva in 
Jerusalem, and that this was the background to the quarrel between the 
‘progeny of‘Anan’ and the forefathers of Meir Gaon and his son Aaron, 
the quarrel described in the aforementioned letters of the Palestinian Gaon 
at the time of the calendar dispute, that is, the murder of Musa and the 
persecution of Meir and Moses. Owing to the fragment from Sahlan’s list, 
however, it is now clear to us what was not clear to those eminent 
scholars, namely that indeed these two were heads of the Palestinian 
yeshiva. The only rational solution to this puzzle is that during the period 
when these descendants of‘Anan headed the Palestinian yeshiva, the final 
split between the Rabbanites and the sect of the Karaites had not yet 
occurred, and at any rate, this branch of the exilarch’s family descending 
from ‘Anan had as yet not been drawn into this rift, and still held a strong 
position among the Jews of the diaspora. Naturally, this conclusion has a 
special significance with regard to Karaite history, and I shall return to it 
further in the discussion on the Karaites. Here it will suffice to note the fact 
that from the mid-ninth century until close to its end, descendants of 
‘Anan headed the Palestinian yeshiva. The end of the ninth century is also 
the supposed date for the beginning of Karaite immigration to Jerusalem. 
Jerusalem became the arena for the struggle between the two camps: the 
offspring of ‘Anan, heads of the Palestinian yeshiva and the newly im¬ 
migrated Karaites, on the one hand, and the head of the family of Meir 
Gaon (evidently his grandfather) Aaron b. Moses, on the other. The end of 
that struggle is clearly accounted for in Sahlan’s list, that is, the sons of 


658 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 8-49-9011 


Semah dissented and were ousted. The division only began with those 
sons of Semah (their names are known to us; one being Asa and the other 
[with no certainty] Yefet. We also know that the name of the son of 
Semah’s brother Jehoshaphat was Boaz). It would not be accurate, then, to 
describe the sons of Josiah, Jehoshaphat and Semah, as Karaites. In Sah- 
lan’s list, it explicitly states with regard to Semah: ‘And he was of the bene 
rabbdnan, that is, he was one of the loyal and apt scholars of the yeshiva, 
unlike his sons. It does not say in that list that in that struggle in Jerusalem, 
Aaron b. Moses, the rival of the sons of Semah (and the Karaites) was 
helped by any personalities from Baghdad. This help, mentioned in a 
letter of the Palestinian Gaon at the time of the calendar dispute (‘and we 
came to you [in Baghdad] to be helped’, etc.) was rendered two gener¬ 
ations later. 

Further, it is worth noting that the descent from Bustanai was a recog¬ 
nised fact among the Rabbanite exilarchs, and the fact that Semah 
stemmed from this family is not to be questioned. However, this lineage 
was the subject for slandering the exilarchic family in the eleventh century, 
both in the responsa of the geonim and in a story in Arabic about Bustanai, 
ascribed to Nathan b. Abraham and copied by Sahlan b. Abraham. It 
seems that Sahlan wrote his genealogical list of geonim and copied the 
story of Bustanai not only for their purely historical value. Rather, he 
seems to have been motivated by a degree of tendentiousness which is not 
clearly definable as yet. The story of Bustanai went so far as to claim that 
all the exilarchs in Baghdad stemmed from Bustanai and his Persian wife 
(who the story claimed was his only wife, and not proselytised), that is, 
that Semah also belonged to that slandered family. In the continuation of 
our discussion, we shall find another offspring of the exilarchic family, 
Daniel b. Azariah, called ‘nasi and Gaon’ because he became head of the 
Palestinian yeshiva. He was even praised in a piyyut as being ‘a spark of 
Bustanai’s’, that is, that he too was of Bustanai’s progeny. 

If we assume, somewhat arbitrarily, that the fourteen years in which 
Meir Gaon and his son Aaron Gaon held office, began in 912 (if we place in 
the middle of these years the period of the contacts and the dispute with 
Babylonia, from 917-921), we arrive at the following chronological table 
of the Palestinian geonim, in which there may be differences of a few years 


(up 

to five), forward or backward: 


(1) 

Jehoshaphat b. Josiah 

before 862 

(2) 

Semah b. Josiah (31 years) 

862-893 

(3) 

Aaron b. Moses (17 years) 

893-910 

(4) 

Isaac (two years) 

910-912 

(5) 

(6) 

AaTonb.Meir} (U >' Cirs) 

912-926 


659 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

(7) Abraham b. Aaron (7 years) 926-933 

(8) Aaron ha-Kohen 933—[?] 

(9) Joseph ha-Kohen b. ‘Ezrun (2 years) 

(10) ‘Ezrun (b. Joseph?) (30 years) 

(11) Samuel (ha-Kohen b. Joseph b. ‘Ezrun [?]) 125 

[853] Above we have seen the obscure matter ofjoseph ha-Kohen Gaon 
b. Yohai, who was a relative of Meir Gaon, and that his time was 
somewhere in the first half of the tenth century. Another Kohen in the list 
of the Palestinian geonim is Aaron ha-Kohen (Number 8 in the list above), 
whose time was close to the middle of that century. In the continuation of 
the list, we find Joseph ha-Kohen b. ‘Ezrun (Number 9); another Gaon 
whose name may also have been ‘Ezrun (Ezra), perhaps son of the former 

125 See: TS 12.138 (Semah the Nasi and head of the yeshiva b. Josiah b. Saul b. ‘Anan) in 
Mann, Texts, II, 131. See the discussion ibid., 44f. The lists of Karaite exilarchs: see mainly 
in Lewin, the Letter of Sherira Gaon, 136; and in Pinsker, Liqqu(e qadmoniyot, II, 53, in the 
footnote; cf. Poznanski, Babylonische Geonim, 127f; see also Mann, Jews, II, 2t0f, 453-457; 
cf. Sahlan’s list, 3. Regarding ‘Anan’s descendants who headed the Palestinian yeshiva: 
Mann, Yearbook, 44(1934), 229, wrote that with the Tulunid regime in Palestine (accord¬ 
ing to him from 868, but actually from 878) easier conditions were created for the Karaites 
and that the establishment of the exilarchic family from descendants of ‘Anan (he calls 
them: the nesi’tm of the Karaites, a designation not yet in use then) was in the interest of the 
new regime in Egypt. As against this, he stresses the fact that after 905, when the Abbasids 
returned to rule Palestine, the family of Aaron b. Meir (more precisely: the family of Meir 
Gaon) were assisted by the rulers of Baghdad and one of the wealthy men of Baghdad 
(Aaron b. ‘Amram) is called in their letters, the ‘saviour of the generation’. However, we 
know today that the sons of Semah were ousted during the Tulunid period. Klar, 
Mehqanm, 189, n. 20, comments on the sentence ‘until the soul would expire because of 
the ransom money - ha-kippurtm' (thus he reads in Guillaume, JQR, NS [1914/5], 555; cf. 
Schechter, Saadyana, 22; Bomstein, Sokolow Jubilee Volume, 107, n. 1, suggests the 
reading: ‘until the souls of the unbelievers [ha-koferim] would expire*) under the enemies 
( ha-sone’im ), the progeny of‘Anan’, and expresses the opinion that the word ha-sdne’im 
(the enemies) is a pejorative distortion of the word ha-nesi’Im, an interesting idea. Baron, 
Saadia Jubilee Volume, 39, sees the dispute in Jerusalem between ‘the progeny of‘Anan’ 
and the family of Meir as a division between Karaites and Rabbanites, in which the 
Karaites exploited their considerable influence with the Muslim authorities against Ben 
Meir, who was saved only by the intervention of the people of Baghdad. Abramson, 
Ba-merkazim, 27ff, presents the matter differently, mainly by differentiating between the 
status ofjehoshaphat and that of Semah, and on the other hand, he considers them both 
Karaites and reaches the conclusion that ‘a Karaite nasi and head of the yeshiva stood at the 
head of the Jewish community, evidently in its relationship to the authorities, for 
thirty-one years (referring to Semah); and the Rabbanite Jews could not but accept the 
power of its authority’. The sources on Bustanai, see Gil, Tarbiz, 48(1978/9), 36-45. See 
TS 12.358: ‘the nasi and Gaon of Tiberias, head of the yeshiva which is injerusalem, the 
House of God, our Lord Daniel’. The piyyut (qasida): BM Or 5557 K, f. 8, line 10, is 
mentioned in Mann, Jen's, II, 220; edited by Fleischer, Shalem, 1(1973/4), 62-74; as one 
can clearly see from the acrostic, the author of this piyyut in honour of Daniel b. Azariah 
was ‘Eli (not Eliah, as Mann has it) ha-Kohen; he wrote it on ‘Friday, 13 Nisan (the date in 
Mann and Fleischer should be corrected) i.e. 21 March 1057 (AM 4817). 13 Nisan fell on 
Friday that year, and then again in 1060 (4820). What I have written here on Jehoshaphat 
and Semah the sons of Josiah is an addition to what I wrote elsewhere: Gil, Tarbiz, 44 
(1974/5), 148f. The list of geonim is based mainly on 3, as mentioned. 


66o 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

(Number 10); Samuel ha-Kohen b. Joseph (Number 11). In the eleventh 
century, we find the priestly family, some of whose sons served as 
geonim: Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon b. Joseph and his descendants. Some of 
the genealogical lists of these kohanim, the progeny of Solomon ha- 
Kohen b. Joseph, are found in the openings of letters of Masllah ha- 
Kohen, head of the Palestinian yeshiva Ge‘on Ya'aqov when it had already 
moved to Fustat, in the twelfth century. In these openings, the lineage of 
earlier generations is: 

(a) Aaron ha-Kohen ‘the chief priest’ ( ha-kohen ha-rosh) 

Joseph ha-Kohen av-bet-din 

Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon, etc. 

while in Masliah ha-Kohen’s memorial list (not the opening of a letter!) the 
lineage is: 

(b) Mordecai (ha-Kohen) Gaon 
Elijah (ha-Kohen) Gaon 
Menahem ha-Kohen 
Joseph ha-Kohen av-bet-din 
Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon, etc. 

and in another memorial list of the same: 

(c) Elijah (ha-Kohen) head of the yeshiva of the diaspora 
Solomon (ha-Kohen) head of the yeshiva of the diaspora 
Menahem head of the yeshiva of the diaspora 
Mordecai ha-Kohen 

Joseph ha-Kohen av-bet-din 
Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon, etc. 

Another type of this family’s lineage lists are those ofEleazer ha-Kohen b. 
Solomon, who lived in the twelfth century in Fustat. Flere we find: 

(d) Aaron ha-Kohen 

Elijah ha-Kohen head of the yeshiva of the diaspora 
Menahem ha-Kohen head of the yeshiva of the diaspora 
Mordecai ha-Kohen 
Joseph ha-Kohen av-bet-din 
Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon, etc. 

As we can see, there are differences between the lists, both in the names 
and the titles. 

A fragment of a letter from the yeshiva to a community, evidently from 
the latter half of the tenth century, contains the signatures of Joseph 
ha-Kohen, head of the yeshiva Ge’on Ya'aqov; of Samuel ha-Kohen ‘the 
third’ in the havura (the yeshiva); and of Aaron ha-Kohen ‘the fourth’ in the 
haviird, who calls himself: great-grandson of a Gaon. At the top of this 
letter, the latter’s signature with the words ‘avdi behirt, ‘my servant, mine 
elect’ are written. It would not be far from the truth to say that the Joseph 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

ha-Kohen, whose signature is found here, is the abovementioned b. 
‘Ezrun (Number 9 in the list; for in no list is there anyone else named 
Joseph who was the Gaon at that time) and that Samuel (who later became 
Gaon) and Aaron, who are mentioned here, are his sons. Also, we find no 
support for those lineage lists in which one of the forefathers of Solomon 
ha-Kohen Gaon b. Joseph (1025) is said to have served as Gaon before the 
eleventh century. 

There is therefore a distinct contradiction between Sahlan’s list and the 
lineage lists of the priestly geonim of the eleventh and twelfth centuries. 
Confirmation of the lineage of the latter is only to be found with regard to 
the names of the father and grandfather of Solomon ha-Kohen, who was 
Gaon in 1025. His father’s name was Joseph and his grandfather’s, Mena- 
hem. This we gather from the fragments of a letter of Josiah Gaon, but 
nowhere does it state that they were heads of the yeshiva. 

The incidence of Elijah ha-Kohen, Solomon ha-Kohen and Menahem 
ha-Kohen being called heads of the ‘yeshiva of the diaspora’ is strange, 
their time, according to the lineage lists of the family, being approxi¬ 
mately the mid-tenth century. We know that it was the Babylonian 
yeshivot which were in the habit of calling themselves yeshiva of the 
diaspora. This puzzle does not seem to have any solution for the time 
being. An address written on the back of a piyyut (which is faded and 
illegible) says: ‘its waters fail not (Is., lviii:ll); receive ye many greetings 
from the gate of the yeshiva of the Aaronids (i.e. the priestly one), which is 
aided by the name of the God ofjacob, and also from all our party and our 
assemblies’, etc. Perhaps the appellation ‘the yeshiva of the Aaronids’ 
suggests that a separate yeshiva was set up by this priestly family. Another 
matter worth looking into is the claim of the priestly geonim of the 
eleventh century, that they were the offspring of the tanna Eleazar b. 
Azariah (around AD 100). Abiathar ha-Kohen writes in his scroll that his 
father, the Gaon Elijah ha-Kohen, is buried in Daltun ‘close to ... Eleazar 
b. Azariah his ancestor’. Another personality who claimed descent from 
Eleazar b. Azariah was Aaron ha-Kohen Gaon b. Joseph (Gaon of Pum- 
bedita from 943 to 960, the rival of Saadia Gaon. He was also called Khalaf 
b. Sarjada). 126 

126 See the lineage lists 4 - 9 , 11 ; in 9 (MS Sasson). line 3, there is the editor’s doubtful 
reconstruction, with an additional name: Solomon ha-Kohen, between Elijah and Me¬ 
nahem. Another lineage list of Masllah Gaon: TSBoxK6, f. 139; see also the fragment TS 
NS J 605, and similar fragments with Masliah ha-Kohen’s lineage list, from the David 
Kaufmann collection in Budapest, edited by Weisz, 7—8. The letter ofjosiah Gaon; 38 , b, 
line 4. In a memorial list: TS Box K 6, f. 118, edited by Mann, Jews, II, 58 (cf. ibid., I, 66), 
Samuel ha-Kohen head of the yeshiva Ge’on Ya'aqov and his son Yose ha-Kohen head of 
the yeshiva Ge’on Ya'aqov are mentioned. We do not know anything about the latter (the 
list is in the handwriting of Samuel b. Saadia, and not as Mann assumed; and is dated 1452 
Sel. (AD 1141)). The Aaronite yeshiva: TS Box K 16, f. 69, edited by Mann, Jews, I, 21, 


662 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

[854] There is no doubt, then, that we have here two priestly families, 
one mentioned in Sahlan’s list, of which there is documentary evidence 
with regard to the existence of Joseph ha-Kohen (b. ‘Ezrun, apparently) 
and his son Samuel. The other family is mentioned in the list of priestly 
geonim of the eleventh century, of which there is evidence of the existence 
of Joseph (Yehosef) ha-Kohen b. Menahem, who was av-bet-dm of the 
Palestinian yeshiva. 

Joseph ha-Kohen of the first family, is mentioned in a letter dealing with 
a legacy of a freedman named Bundar, of Palermo. He bequeathed a 
quarter of his property (the sum of some thirty-five dinars) to ‘the poor of 
Jerusalem, may it be rebuilt soon ... to Rabbanites only’. Samuel b. 
Hosha'na, of the Jerusalem yeshiva, then visited Sicily, and arranged to 

n. 1. On the ‘yeshiva of the diaspora’ in the priestly lineage lists, see Poznanski, REJ, 51 
(1906), 55f; in his opinion, this appellation proves that those personalities lived in Egypt. 
The Scroll of Abiathar, see: 559, b, lines 23-25; cf. also in ‘the ancient questions’ the 
matter of the descent of the head of the Palestinian yeshiva from Eleazar b. Azariah, see in 
Rosenthal, HUCA , 21(1948), 45, lines 29-30: ‘so he counted me among his flock, the 
havura of righteousness (i.e. the Palestinian yeshiva), and his own generation, and Eleazar 
b. Azariah’. Cf. also Assaf, Kiryat Sefer, 5(1927-29), 46, who also noted the matter of the 
descent from Eleazar b. Azariah; the claim of descent of the abovementioned Aaron 
ha-Kohen b. Joseph from Eleazar b. Azariah emerges from his responsum, edited by 
Assaf, Jeschurun, 5/6(1925) 45ff, and re-edited in: Made'e ha-yahadiit, II, 72ff. See on the 
entire matter: Gil, Sejunot, NS 1(1979/80), 22f, n. 19, and some assumptions there as to 
the origins of the Palestinian priestly geonim (Mr Aaron Nahlon draws my attention to 
the fact that these mentions of Eleazar b. Azariah were evidently due to his status in the 
Sanhedrin, where he had the rank of nasi). Apparently, the people of that generation were 
aware of the fact that a nasi need not necessarily have to stem from the house of David; as 
Abraham Maimuni says in one of his responsa; ‘as was the case with R. Eleazar b. Azariah, 
who was nasi although he was a Kohen’. (See BT, Ber. 27b: Eleazar b. Azariah was about 
to be appointed instead of Rabban Gamliel, ‘as he was a scholar, and rich, and a 
tenth-generation offspring of Ezra’.) See the Responsa of Abraham Maimuni, 20. We have 
seen that at the end of some of the lists ‘the grandson of Aaron the priest’ is written, or ‘the 
grandson of Aaron, the chief priest' (according to Ezra, vii:5) and also ‘the grandson of 
Aaron the priest, the Saint of the Lord’ (seePs., cvi:16). There are contradictions between 
the lists, but Elijah ha-Kohen ‘head of the yeshiva of the diaspora’ is found in all of them, 
and it is said of him that he was the grandson of Aaron ha-Kohen ‘the head’. True, 
common sense tells us that the reference is to Aaron, the brother of Moses, but it is not 
impossible that the above-mentioned Aaron ha-Kohen Gaon b. Joseph, the head of the 
Pumbedita yeshiva, is meant. On the outset of the involvement of Joseph ha-Kohen b. 
Menahem’s family (and after him, Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon, his sons Joseph and Elijah, 
etc.) in the Palestinian yeshiva, we have an important additional detail in 3a. This is an 
additional fragment of what Sahlan b. Abraham wrote on the geonim of Palestine and it 
emerges that that family of geonim stemmed from Sijilmassa in the Maghrib (Joseph 
ha-Kohen, father of the family, is called there Sijilmassi). This fact is linked with the 
matter ofjudah ha-Kohen b. Joseph, ‘ha-Rav’. Above I wrote that he was perhaps the 
person of the same name mentioned in a Geniza document, whose father’s designation 
was: ‘his honourable Sanctity, our Lord and Master Joseph ha-Kohen Sijilmassi’ (supra, 
sec. 378); if this is the case, one can assume that the ‘Rav’, leader of the Maghribis in 
Fustat, was indeed a member of that priestly family who headed the Palestinian yeshiva, 
and the brother of Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon. However, the fact that the ‘Rav’ was still 
active towards the end of the eleventh century, speaks against this assumption, for 


663 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


transfer the money tojerusalem through a certainjoshua al-Halabl. Part of 
the money went to ‘Joseph Gaon head of the yeshiva’. Although the letter 
does not specifically state ‘ha-Kohen’, there is no doubt that Joseph 
ha-Kohen, the father of Samuel, is being spoken of. According to Sahlan’s 
list, he was succeeded by ‘Ezrun (Ezra), who was Gaon for thirty years. If 
this is correct, it means that Joseph ha-Kohen became Gaon at about the 
onset of the Fatimid period (970). About ‘Ezrun, we have no further 
information. A list at the end of a midrash manuscript says: ‘his honour¬ 
able Sanctity, our Lord and Master Joseph ha-Kohen, head of the yeshiva 
Ge’on Ya'aqov, and our Masterjosiah av-bet-dm, and our Master Isaac, his 
brother, ‘the third’, and our Master Samuel b. ‘Ezrun, of blessed 
memory’. It is difficult to determine whichjoseph ha-Kohen this refers to; 
perhaps it is the grandson of the above-mentioned Joseph ha-Kohen and 
the son of‘Ezrun, who succeeded him. We have seen that in one of the lists 
Yose ha-Kohen Gaon is mentioned, and Samuel b. ‘Ezrun, in the continu¬ 
ation of the list, was evidently his brother. If indeed there was another 
Gaon by the name ofjoseph ha-Kohen, it sems that the extent of his office 
was very short. 

As to Samuel ha-Kohen b. Joseph, we know that he occupied the Gaon’s 
seat at the end of the tenth century. Joseph b. Isaac ibn Abitur’s letter to 
him from the year 989 has been preserved, in which Joseph ibn Abltur 
requests that he support him in his struggle against Hanokh b. Moses, 
who had appealed to Shemaria b. Elhanan for support. In my collection, 
there is a fragment of a marriage deed of a woman named Sutay t, written 
during the days of‘our Lord and Master Samuel ha-Kohen Gaon’. We also 
know that before he became Gaon, Samuel ha-Kohen was av-bet-dm of the 
yeshiva, which is explicity stated in the fragment of a letter dealing with 
the distribution of money to the people of the Palestinian yeshiva. Sherira 
and Hayy wrote to him on 13 Av 1300 Sel., or 18 July AD 989. 

Samuel ha-Kohen’s brother, Hanania, was av-bet-dm of the Palestinian 
yeshiva. He is mentioned in a court record in Fustat, of 16 Elul 1318 Sel., 1 
September AD 1007, when before ‘the council of the av-bet-dm Hanania b. 
Joseph Gaon’, none other than Ephraim b. Shemaria and his rival Solo¬ 
mon b. Pashshat, came to be judged. A poet from Aleppo dedicated three 
piyyutim to Hanania; in one of them he expresses his joy on Hanania’s visit 
to Aleppo (he thanks ‘God who brought you to me, to Sova’), and ends 
with ‘greetings ... to our Master Hanania av of the yeshiva’. Elsewhere he 
writes: ‘Our Master Hanania who is called the father of all and the 
excellent’. Apparently, Hanania was already av-bet-dm at the time of his 
brother Samuel’s term of office as Gaon and continued in this role during 

Solomon Gaon died in 1025. Then perhaps the ‘Rav’ was the grandson of that Judah 

ha-Kohen, the assumed brother of Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon. 


664 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

the terms of the succeeding geonim, Shemaiah and Josiah. He is men¬ 
tioned in the draft of a court record in Fustat concerning the dispute over 
slaughtering, mentioned above, and which is to be found in my collection. 
It mentions in the past tense, ‘Shemaiah Gaon, ofblessed memory’, as well 
as Hanania: ‘Our Master Hanania ha-Kohen, may God preserve him, his 
av-bet-din', who was still alive then. On the same subject of slaughtering, 
Hanania wrote a letter which is also to be found in my collection. The 
letters from the people of Sicily to the yeshiva are also addressed to him. 

We also have a letter from the Gaon Samuel ha-Kohen b. Joseph to 
Shemaria b. Elhanan, which besides containing explicit confirmation of 
my conclusions concerning the existence of two priestly families who 
headed the Palestinian yeshiva, reveals considerable hostility between the 
two families in around 990. The letter is an appeal from the ‘veteran’ 
kohanlm at the head of the yeshiva, to the people of Fustat, asking them to 
refrain from supporting their rival Joseph ha-Kohen b. Menahem. It 
seems that the latter managed to gain the support of the central figure of 
the day among the Jews of Fustat, Shemaria b. Elhanan, and promised to 
give him the status of av-bet-din of the yeshiva. Samuel b. Hosha‘na and 
Josiah b. Aaron, who later on was to become Gaon, were among those 
who took issue with the Gaon. Ben-Sasson finds in Joseph b. Abitur’s 
letter to the Gaon Samuel ha-Kohen traces of anxiety and anger towards 
those who try to undermine the Gaon, while in the remnant of a letter 
written by Sherira Gaon and his son Hayy to Samuel ha-Kohen, he finds 
an expression of support for the Palestinian Gaon. (The date of the letter is 
18 July 989.) In addition, he assumes that the letter, ascribed to Hayy 
Gaon, ‘to the unruly kohanlm of Ifriqiya’, was directed against the ‘new’ 
priestly family, who challenged the Palestinian Gaon. His views are 
supported by the fact that indeed the ‘new’ priestly family stemmed from 
the Maghrib (Sijilmassa). The ‘elders of Ramla’ supported the ‘veteran’ 
family, while the two sides tried to obtain the authorities’ assistance. The 
letter of the Gaon Samuel ha-Kohen mentions ‘the ruler of the badiya (the 
Bedouin), meaning, it seems, Mufarrij b. Daghfal, the leader of the 
Bedouin, who ruled at that time in Palestine (see secs. 562, 563). 127 

127 Bundar: TS 16.133. The list at the end of the midrash: MS Firkovitch II, 157 A, fols. 9—10, 
cf. Abramson, Ba-merkazim , 31. Samuel b. ‘Ezrun, perhaps grandson of Samuel ha- 
Kohen Gaon, is mentioned in a letter of Solomon b. Judah, 101, lines 6-7; and it is to him 
(Samuel b. Ezra) that the lepers of Tiberias are appealing for help: 262. The letter of Joseph 
Ibn Abitur: ENA 4009, f. 15, see in Mann, Tarbiz, 6(1934/5), 84£f; see on Joseph ibn 
Abitur and his struggles: Mann, Tarbiz, 5(1933/4), 282-286; Ashtor, Qordt, I, 233-247. 
The marriage deed of Sutayt: 14. Samuel ha-Kohen av-bet-din: 13. Sherira and Hayy: 
Mann, Tarbiz, 6(1934/5), 84. Hanania ha-Kohen: see Mann, Jews, II, 440, with a frag¬ 
ment of the court record, Mosseri I a 9; as to Solomon b. Pashshat: Pashshat b. Samuel is 
mentioned in 12, line 19, in a deed from Fustat (dealing with property in Tiberias) from 
the end of the tenth century; and also TS 12.462, which relates to a deed from the year 


66 s 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


[855] In about the year 1000, it appears that the Gaon was Shemaiah; he 
was evidently a Maghribi by origin. As I have mentioned, Hanania 
ha-Kohen b. Joseph remained av-bet-dln and continued in this role after 
Shemaiah, but there were no more geonim of this first dynasty of the 
priestly geonim. Shemaiah Gaon is mentioned in a court record in Fustat 
dealing with the above-mentioned slaughtering dispute. A memorandum 
written in Fustat concerning Ephraim b. Shemaria notes that Ephraim 
received the first appointment as bet-dTn from Shemaiah Gaon. In fact, the 
name of Shemaiah is not preserved there, for a part of the document is 
torn, but one can safely assume that it was included, for the document 
mentions Josiah Gaon in the continuation. The name of Shemaiah Gaon is 
mentioned in the lineage of his descendants, who lived in Palestine and 
Egypt in the eleventh and twelfth centuries. We find his grandson, the 
above-mentioned Shemaiah he-haver b. Yeshu'a, among the Maghribis in 
Jerusalem, and this makes it appear likely that Shemaiah Gaon originated 
from the Maghrib. The great-grandson of Shemaiah Gaon, Abraham b. 
Shemaiah he-haver, was dayyan in Fustat, and his name is to be found in 
the city’s court deeds dating from between 1092 and 1132. Shemaiah 
he-haver had another son, Josiah, and the latter’s son (that is, the nephew 
of Abraham the dayyan b. Shemaiah), Joshua, is mentioned in documents 
from Fustat in around 1140 and thereafter, and his signature is ‘Joshua b. 
Josiah great-grandson of Shemaiah Gaon’. Below we shall see that evi¬ 
dently Solomon b. Judah was also a descendant of Shemaiah Gaon. 
Mention should also be made of the son of Shemaiah’s sister, Tobiah b. 
Daniel. In Josiah Gaon’s day, he was one of the people of the yeshiva and 
he held the title of haver, like his father Daniel. This was also the case in 
Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph’s time, when Solomon b. Judah was already 
‘third’. The two sons of Tobiah, Aaron and Solomon, are also mentioned 
in the documents in my collection. 128 


Josiah b. Aaron 

[856] Josiah Gaon, who replaced Shemaiah, stemmed from a different 
family. No lineage list indicates any family connection between the two. 

1277 Sel., that is AD 965/6; perhaps he is the father of this Solomon; see Solomon b. 
Pashshat in 271, line 40 (Tyre 1019): and in TS 16.191, a deed whose exact time is not 
known. The piyyutlm: TS Loan 9, edited by Davidson, JQR, NS 2(1911/2), 227-231; see 
20, line 12; 23; the letter from Sicily; 45. See the letter to Shemaria b. Elhanan: 38 (Gil, 
Te'ttda, 7 [1991], 31 Iff); the fragment of the letter by Sherira and Hayy to Samuel 
ha-Kohen: ENA 4009, f. 15: Hayy’s letter ‘to the priests’: ed. Lewin, Ginze qedem, 
4(1930), 51ff; see also 3a; see Ben-Sasson, Zion, 51(1986), 386ff. 

128 The memorandum: 324. line 12; see Mann, Jews, II, 342. On Abraham b. Shemaiah see 
Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 512. Joshua b. Josiah: see Mann, It, 232; Goitein, 
Mediterranean Society, II, 268, 584, n. 53, Tobiah b. Daniel and his sons: see the Hebrew 


666 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

The lineage lists which include the lineage ofjosiah contradict one another 
and are not at all trustworthy, for those of the Gaon’s forefathers whose 
names are listed there, such as Josiah and Abraham, did not exist at all, or 
at any rate, were not geonim. In a few of the lists, the name of Josiah’s 
father, Abraham, is included, but we know for certain that his name was 
Aaron. We recognise from the lists that the descendants ofjosiah wished 
to be recorded as members of the family of Meir Gaon, but they were not 
familiar with its lineage. This, however, does not mean that the lineage is 
not genuine in the main. Josiah’s father was Aaron, of which we have 
proof in the opening phrase of a letter sent to him, in which he is called: 
‘Josiah head of the yeshiva Ge’on Ya'aqov, son of his great honourable 
Sanctity, our Lord and Master Aaron, haver in the Great Sanhedrin’. From 
this, we also learn that his father was haver, and not more than that, 
contrary to what was stated in the lineage lists. It seems that the 'alama, the 
formula adopted by Josiah to end his letters, was yesha‘ tov (good deliver¬ 
ance). The time ofjosiah’s death can be clearly arrived at from letters of 
Solomon b. Judah. In a fragment of a letter in his handwriting, he notes 
that the Gaon who preceded him, Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph, died six 
days before Rosh ha-shana. As we shall see below, Solomon b. Judah 
became Gaon in AM 4786; 23 Elul AM 4785 fell on 21 August AD 1025. 
He complains there that something similar occurred ‘during the past 
holidays’. What he meant by this was that a Gaon also died ‘during the past 
holidays’. He did not mean the holidays of Tishri of the year before, for 
Josiah Gaon was still alive in the month of Adar 1336 Sel. (AM 4785, that is 
February AD 1025), as we can clearly see from a regulation adopted by the 
‘Palestinians’ in Fustat during that month. Solomon b. Judah then refers to 
Passover and Shavuot, that is to say that Josiah Gaon died in the spring of 
1025. 

There are more than thirty letters in my collection written by Josiah 
Gaon himself, or by some of his retainers, during the period in which he 
held office. Some of them deal with disputes in which he was involved. A 
quarrel involving Hanania ha-Kohen b. Joseph, who was av-bet-din in 
Josiah’s day, is immortalised in a letter in which Hanania tells that he was 
ill, but has recovered since. His letter was delayed because of his illness. In 
the continuation, he writes about events in Tiberias, which I have men¬ 
tioned above, when a man wanted to revolt against the yeshiva, and for 
this purpose, was in contact with two brothers in Fustat who helped him - 
it emerges - to have the slaughtering taxes paid to him rather than to the 

Index, and see especially 34, a, line 12 (where he is called haver) ; 199; the name of his father: 

Daniel he-haver; see 181, line 2: Tobiah son of Daniel he-haver, son of Shemaiah Gaon's 

sister. What Mann writes in Jews , I, 143; Texts, I, 326f., on Tobiah b. Daniel, is not exact. 

‘The third’ mentioned in 147 is Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon, not Tobiah b. Daniel. 


667 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


yeshiva. I have also mentioned the letter which speaks of the quarrel with 
someone from the exilarchic family, and another letter in the handwriting 
of the yeshiva’s scribe, from which it appears that there was a dispute 
within the yeshiva. It seems thatjosiah was taking issue with the av-bet-din 
who succeeded Hanania, Joseph ha-Kohen b. Menahem (father of the 
priestly dynasty of the eleventh century), and here too, people of Tiberias 
are involved. Josiah may have risen to the office of Gaon as a result of 
disputes, and it is not fortuitous that his rise was connected with the 
ousting of the earlier priestly family from the office of Gaon. There seems 
to have been a very strong faction which opposed that priestly family, and 
Josiah hints in one of his letters that he actually tried to elude the office 
imposed on him. Perhaps his appointment was intended to put an end to 
that ongoing dispute. 

In some of his letters, Josiah deals with aid, particularly as a result of the 
tax decrees. One should bear in mind thatjosiah was Gaon during a very 
difficult period for the Jews of Palestine, that of the disturbances and 
battles of 1011—1014 and the great war of the year 1024. In one of his letters 
written to Ephraim b. Shemaria, he mentions a man, evidently a Pal¬ 
estinian who lived in Egypt, Samuel b. ha-Roqeah, who helped the 
Jerusalem population with considerable sums of money ‘so that they 
should not be afflicted’. He compares Ephraim with ‘Joseph [of the Bible] 
for his father’s house’ and confirms the receipt of 30 darkemonim kdkhbayye 
(dinars with a star, and it is not clear what he means by this) which have 
been distributed to the Jerusalem poor. He mentions Abu’l-Tayyib ‘Allun 
b. Sahl and his father Sahl b. Aaron favourably. He describes the sad 
situation of the people of Ramla (undoubtedly as the result of the events of 
1011-1014), ‘who have been motionless under the weight of calamity and 
distress’, while formerly it was they who supported the poor ofjerusalem. 
In his letter to the community of Dumyat, he also deals with matters of 
aid. A tremendous cry for help emerges from another letter, in which he 
mixes complaints about the external situation with bitter remarks about 
some among the Jewish leadership. The Palestinian Jews are in great 
distress, many had died and others were dying of starvation; ‘people of the 
cities were shattered and people of the villages dispersed, and poverty 
surrounded them’. ‘The days of the Turk’ are mentioned in the letter, and 
the suffering then endured by thejewish population (we do not know who 
he is referring to). A certain Kohen (‘the Aaronite’) helps the authorities on 
matters of taxes; also helping them is a certain Ibn Garman (perhaps a 
Christian: b. Germanus?). B. al-‘Akki, the son-in-law ofjoseph ha-Kohen 
(b. Menahem) av-bet-din was forced to flee the city. Owing to the letter’s 
poor state, it is impossible to fully understand the writer’s intention, but 


668 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 


the impression given is one of extreme distress and sharp internal quarrels. 
In another letter to Ephraim b. Shemaria, the people who were impris¬ 
oned because of their heavy debts are mentioned; this problem also 
troubled the geonim who succeeded him. 129 

[857] Josiah had a son called Aaron. Although it states in the lineage lists 
mentioned above that Aaron was av-bet-din, we have no proof of this. On 
the contrary, the appellation used for Aaron’s son - ‘the grandson of 
geonim’ - clearly means that his father, Aaron, did not serve in that high 
office, nor is he mentioned in the documents in my collection except with 
reference to his son, Josiah. We find Josiah the grandson in about 1030 in 
Sahrajt in Egypt. It seems that he did not reach a high rank in the yeshiva 
either; it is possible that he merely attained the rank of‘fourth’. His letter 

129 See the lineage lists compiled by Mann , Jews, II, 50ff. Poznanski, REJ, 66(1913), 71, 
composed a family tree of Josiah which includes his forefathers and descendants, who 
lived in Egypt, until the 13th century. The lineage is based on Bodl MS Heb b 11, f. 24, see 
also ENA 2592, f. 18v; cf. Mann, JQR, NS 9(1918/9), 409. See also the lineage of Samuel 
ha-Nagid b. David (Egypt, the thirteenth century), in MS Merton College, Oxford, in 
which the early generations are entered on an imaginative basis, undoubtedly from 
someone’s need to boast (the shelf-mark of the MS is Or No. 6, which is a commentary by 
the abovementioned, to Genesis; cf. Poznanski, ibid. , 62; Mann, Jett'S, 50, mentioning this 
MS according to Neubauer’s Catalogue, Bodl 2443. This MS is from the year 1821 Sel., 
1509). Josiah’s father’s name: see 39. Yesha' (dv: 32, line 22; 33, b. The deaths of the 
geonim: 56. The regulation of the Fustat community: 319, see lines 24 (‘our Lord and 
Master Josiah Gaon, may God preserve him’), 37-38 (the date). See also Goitein’s 
discussions on the chronology of the geonim: Shalem, 1(1973/4), 16, 21f; in ibid., 
2(1975/6), 102, he withdrew the opinions expressed in the first place; see also his: 
ha-Yishuv, 82; what he writes there on David b. Shekhania, that he was still alive in Kislev, 
1338 Sel., according to TS 32.2, is based only on the fact that his son Yefet mentioned 
David, his father’s name, without the addition of a blessing for the dead, which is no 
proof; similarly, there is no foundation to his opinion that there was another Gaon at the 
same time whose name was Zadok, based on his completion of 324, see in the notes to the 
version of this document. The letters ofjosiah Gaon and his yeshiva: 16-47; also 315, 319, 
324. The letter of Hanania ha-Kohen: 23. The matter of the man from the exilarchic 
family: 29. The quarrel with Joseph ha-Kohen b. Menahem: 38. Josiah on his unwilling¬ 
ness to be Gaon: 28, a, line 11. The letter to Ephraim b. Shemaria: 31. (Samuel b. 
he-Roqealj is perhaps Samuel ha-Kohen b. Avtalyon.) To the community ofDumyat: 36. 
The cry for help: 37. The other letter to Ephraim b. Shemaria: 46. As regards the situation 
in Palestine in the days ofjosiah Gaon, the complaints contained in the letter of the sons of 
Berekhia should also be taken into consideration, TS 16.64, ed. Goitein, Tarbiz 
38(1968/9), 22-26. The writer is the elder brother, Joseph b. Berekhia, who writes from 
Qayrawan tojosephb. Jacob ibn ‘Awkal in Fustat, evidently in 1015 or somewhat later. A 
state of iltiydth, a complex situation, is mentioned there, referring either to the tough 
conditions caused by the Bedouin revolt or to some internal difficulties. He learned about 
the situation from a letter which was brought by Abu Ibrahim b. Sahl, apparently from 
Jerusalem. Due to the letter’s poor state of preservation, not all the details are clear. The 
son of Daniel is mentioned there, probably Tobiah b. Daniel, and the banker Sha’ya. On 
Tobiah b. Daniel, see infra, secs. 855, 872. Abu Ibrahim (Isaac) b. Sahl is also mentioned in 
TS 10 J 9, f. 26, the letter of the Nagid Abraham b. ‘ Ata’ to Ibn ‘Awkal, in which he asks 
him to repay Isaac b. Sahl’s expenses when dealing with the sending of the remains of the 
Nagid’s brother for burial in Jerusalem, see Goitein, Tarbiz, 34(1964/5), 166f. See also 
supra, sec. 835. 


669 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

to Abraham b. Haggai in Fustat has been preserved, as well as a fragment 
from a letter to Ephraim b. Shemaria. 

A notable personality at the Palestinian yeshiva at the beginning of the 
century and during the period ofjosiah Gaon, was the poet Samuel b. 
Hosha'na. He rose to the rank of ‘third’ of the yeshiva. His letter to 
Shemaria b. Elhanan in Fustat has been preserved, with a warm rec¬ 
ommendation for Nathan b. Abraham, when he set out on his way to the 
Maghrib via Fustat (as mentioned in sec. 795). A letter evidently written at 
the beginning of 1002 describes, as we have already seen, the distress and 
calamities suffered by the communities of Palestine at the time. In that 
letter, he still calls himself‘the fourth of the havura'. Before that, in ca. 990, 
he is mentioned in a letter dealing with the distribution of money to the 
people of the yeshiva, without any title attached to his name. In the 
fragment touching on what occurred during his visit to Egypt to partici¬ 
pate in the funeral of Shemaria b. Elhanan (1011) (which I have mentioned 
in sec. 572) he is spoken of with a blessing of the dead following his name, 
and as that fragment was undoubtedly written shortly after the events 
(also described in the ‘Egyptian Scroll’), he apparently died soon after the 
death of Shemaria b. Elhanan and those events in Egypt. His status in the 
yeshiva is also confirmed by a promissory deed drawn up in Jerusalem 
before the ‘Grand Court’ on 10 November 1004, in which Samuel ‘the 
third’ b. Hosha'na is the last of the signatories, that is, the most important 
among them. Evidently, he travelled to Fustat frequently, and to other 
places as well, on behalf of the yeshiva. Letters have been preserved 
written by Samuel’s son, Abraham, who became ‘fourth’ in the yeshiva 
and who called himself ‘son of the third’; there are also letters from his 
grandson, ‘Eli ha-mumhe b. Abraham. The latter had gone through many 
hardships, and had been imprisoned but managed to escape to Egypt, 
where he hoped to get help from Hesed al-Tustari, but when he arrived, 
Hesed was no longer alive. We also encounter the great-grandson of 
Samuel ‘the third’, Joshua he-haver b. ‘Eli ha-Mumhe. On 10 August 
1076, he writes a deed in Ramla, when this city had already been under the 
Turcomans’ rule for some time, and a fragment of the deed is preserved in 
the Geniza. Afterwards, he moved to Caesarea, and from there wrote to 
Mevorakh the Nagid b. Saadia in about 1098, asking him to help him 
move to Ascalon. 130 

130 ‘Grandson ofgeonim’: 210, lines 27-28. ‘The fourth’: 238, line 9; his letters from Sahrajt: 
202, 203. The fragment of a letter ofjosiah b. Aaron, grandson ofjosiah Gaon: 203a; from 
which it emerges that he made his living by copying books. A commentary of ele masse'e 
(Num., xxx-xxxvi) is mentioned (in 202 he mentioned a commentary of ele ha-devarim, 
Deut., i-iii). Samuel b. Hosha'na’s letter: 18; the letter from the beginning of 1002: MS of 
the Berlin community: 4A; the letter from ca. 990: 13; the Jerusalem deed: 17. TS 16.14 
contains evidence concerning a Damascene promissory deed which Moses b. Shahriyar 


670 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 


[858] As we have seen, Josiah Gaon died in the spring of 1025, and 
Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph b. Menahem succeeded him. We have 
already discussed the family’s origins and how we suddenly found the 
family amidst the Palestinian geonim. This family had widespread con¬ 
nections by marriage, some of them with outstanding personalities. I have 
already marked their family relationship (cousins) to Abraham ha-Kohen 
b. Isaac ibn Furat, the influential physician of Fustat who spent many years 
in Ramla. They were also related to another priestly family of the wealthy 
of Fustat, the brothers Ephraim and Manasseh ha-Kohen, sons of Abra¬ 
ham. Manasseh, the younger of the two, was the son-in-law of Solomon 
b. Judah, and I shall speak of him again. Solomon ha-Kohen was also 
related by marriage to Solomon b. Judah, and although this is not quite 
clear, we may assume that Solomon b. Judah married the sister of Solo¬ 
mon ha-Kohen, for it was said ofjoseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon that he was 
the cousin of Abraham b. Solomon b. Judah. Evidently, there was also a 
marital connection between Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon and Ephraim b. 
Shemaria, for Ghalib ha-Kohen b. Moses, Ephraim’s son-in-law, calls 
Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon ‘our cousin’. One can assume that 
Joseph ha-Kohen also had a son whose name was Moses: 


Menahem ha-Kohen 
/Joseph ha-Kohen^ 


Ephraim b. Shemaria Moses Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon daughter - Solomon 
I \ /"■ b. Judah 

daughter — Ghalib Joseph Elijah a son who died x Abraham 


The special connection with Ephraim b. Shemaria is also obvious from 
a letter of ‘Eli ha-Mumhe, the grandson of Samuel b. Hosha‘na, to 
Ephraim, in which he advises him how to maintain his correspondence 
with the two priestly brothers, Joseph and Elijah. The connection is also 
confirmed by the letters of Joseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon to 


made out to the credit ofjoseph b. Jacob rosh kalld (evidently Ibn ‘Awkal); this Moses 
remained owing 164 dinars after the death of Jacob, the father ofjoseph. The deed was 
dated Tuesday, 6 Tammuz 4767, 24 June 1007, in the court of Samuel ‘the third in the 
havurd’ (the evidence on the deed was given in Fustat, and was written by Yefet b, David). 
On the piyyutlm of Samuel b, Hosha'na see: Halper, Halequfa, 18(1922/3), 187; Schir- 
mann, Shirim hadashim, 63-69 (who assumed that Samuel was the author of the ‘Egyptian 
Scroll’ but I have not seen any proof of this); see there details on his piyyutlm which were 
published, on research about him, and some additional piyyutlm; Fleischer, Ha-sijhtt, 
4(1972/3), 344, andn. 64, and more piyyutlm there, 350-353. See in Schirmann, ibid., 77 f, 
a dirge written by Sahlanb. Abraham on the death of Samuel ‘the third’; see further: ENA 
4007, f. Au: ‘a widduy (confession) by R. Samuel the third b. Hosha'na, of righteous 
blessed memory’. The letters of Abraham: 227—230. The letters of his son ‘Eli: 231—240. 
Joshua b. ‘Eli: 567-569. 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


Ephraim, in which the family relationship is felt. I have already mentioned 
(in sec. 790) the secret correspondence used by the two brothers to 
maintain contact with Ephraim, in order to give him information about 
events in Jerusalem and its yeshiva, which can be clearly discerned from 
the letter sent him by Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon. 

Av-bet-dm in Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon’s time was Zadok ha-Levi b. 
Levi, clearly stated in the document relating to Ephraim b. Shemaria. The 
‘aldma (the formula for greeting and ending in a letter) of Solomon 
ha-Kohen is known to us as yesha' yuhdsh. Six letters written by Solomon 
ha-Kohen have been preserved, much of their contents naturally dealing 
with the distress prevailing in Palestine, and especially in Jerusalem, for 
the war against the Bedouin was still at its peak, although it had moved to 
the north of Palestine. A letter written by his son Elijah, of which a draft 
has been preserved, also belongs to the period of his holding office. This is 
a recommendation to ‘Samuel b. Semah the cantor known as b. al- 
Ladhiqi’ (that is, from Ladhiqiyya in Syria), of whom it was said that he 
was the ‘court scribe’ of the yeshiva, and that ‘he was given a seat with us in 
the city of Ramla’. This man seems to have gone to Egypt to secure 
financial aid for his heavy family burden: his old mother, abandoned by 
her husband, and his two sisters. 131 


Solomon b. Judah 

[859] The outstanding figure in accounts of the Jewish population in 
Palestine during the period under discussion was Solomon b. Judah, partly 
due to the long stretch of time during which he held office, and also 
because it was during his time that the synagogue of the ‘Palestinians’ in 
Fustat was rebuilt and its repository of the Geniza was constructed. When 
the time came for his letters and other documents written during his day to 
be removed and ‘hidden’, they were placed in that repository and hence 

131 Manasseh ha-Kohen: 76, lines 54—56. Joseph ha-Kohen and Abraham son of the Gaon 
were cousins: 182, line 5. Ghalib ha-Kohen b. Moses: 418, in the upper margin, lines 9ff. 
Solomon ha-Kohen had three sons, and we shall encounter Joseph and Elijah below; the 
third son must have died at a young age, for we hear no more of him; see 48, which ends 
with greetings from the Gaon’s three sons. The letters ofjoseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon: 
407, 408. Elijah ha-Kohen: 413. On Ephraim: 49, line 7; see also: 324; it seems that also in 
TS 13 J 6, f. 23 mention is made of Ephraim b. Shemaria: this is a court record written by 
Yefet b. David, dealing with a quarrel over a burial plot; there we find the phrase: 
‘appointed by the authority of the Kohen, our Lord and Master Solomon head of the 
yeshiva, of blessed memory’, see lines 14-15. Zadok ha-Levi av-bet-dm , see: 324. Yesha' 
yuhash: see the Hebrew Index. In a small fragment of a letter written by Yefet b. David on 
behalf of Ephraim b. Shemaria to Qayrawan, the sender’s name has been preserved: ‘the 
son ofal-GhazzI (= the Gazan), yesha' yuhdsh ’; this letter was undoubtedly written during 
the year Solomon ha-Kohen held the office of Gaon, 1025: see ENA 2735, f. 4. The letters 
of Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon: 47-52. Samuel b. Semah: 412; he is also mentioned in 22, 
line 28, where he is signatory as witness. 


672 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

have been preserved until this very day. His many letters and others in 
which he is mentioned, as well as documents of the period, quickly 
attracted the attention of the first Geniza students. When Schechter pub¬ 
lished one of Solomon b. Judah’s letters to Ephraim b. Shemaria in his 
Saadyana, he still had no idea who the author of the letter was, and 
assumed that it was Solomon b. Elijah ha-Kohen (the Gaon), the brother 
of Abiathar. Gottheil and Worrell, who edited a collection of Geniza 
documents from the Freer Gallery in Washington in 1927, still could not 
positively identify him. Similarly Assaf, who in that same year wrote a 
review of their publication, still had doubts as to whether Solomon b. 
Judah or his predecessor Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph was the writer. 

The first publication of a Geniza document in which Solomon b. Judah 
is mentioned was that of a draft of a letter written to him by Ephraim b. 
Shemaria. This document was published by Muller and Kaufmann in 
1892. In 1903, Abraham Epstein noted that this document was related to 
Seder ‘olarn zutd and Seder tannd’im we-amora’tm, published by Neubauer, in 
which there is mention of ‘our Master Solomon b. Judah head of the 
Jerusalem yeshiva . .. who is head of the yeshiva now in the year 4807’ 
(and there are other dates which are not consistent with one another; 
around 1045). A. Epstein was the first to discriminate decisively between 
Solomon b. Judah and Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph. At the very same 
time, Bacher had still not discriminated between the two, and assumed 
that Solomon b. Judah was the grandfather of Abiathar ha-Kohen, the 
main figure of the scroll of Abiathar. Poznanski supported this idea 
(opposing Epstein), and realised his error only a decade later. Some years 
afterward, in 1918, Marmorstein attempted to survey the subject in an 
article devoted to Solomon b. Judah and his generation. However, it was 
only thirty years after the first scientific publication on this figure that the 
personality of Solomon b. Judah was described in the round, by Mann, 
firstly in a sharp article reviewing Marmorstein’s article, in 1919, and later 
in his books. Of the more recent studies, the comprehensive article by 
Goitein on the history of the geonim in Palestine should be noted in 
particular, in which many additional letters of the Gaon were edited by 
him, and accompanied by a comprehensive discussion on the various 
questions they evoke. 132 

132 See: Schechter: Saadyana, lllff (79); Gottheil and Worrell, No. 5 (54); Assaf, Zion 
(ha-me’assef), 2(1926/7), 114. Ephraim’s draft: 334, see the introduction there. See: 
Epstein, MGW], 47(1903), 341 f; Neubauer, Mediaeval Jewish Chronicles, I, 178; Bacher, 
JQR, 15(1903), 81; Poznanski, ZjhB, 7(1903), 180, n. 2; Worman, JQR, 19(1907), 725f 
followed Bacher and connected Solomon b. Judah with the priestly family, assuming that 
he was the father ofjoseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon. Poznanski, REJ, 66(1913), 68, 
already suggested that there was no such family connection, but only explained his view 


673 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


[860] The origins of Solomon b. Judah are enshrouded in mist, to a 
certain extent. In his signature, he generally called himself btrrabt, which 
means ‘son of a scholar’. At times, his signature would be encircled by tiny 
letters, which when read alternately at the top and at the bottom, stated, 
‘But I am a worm, and no man’ (Ps., xxii:6). In one of his letters, he 
mentions his appointment as Gaon and says: ‘not by virtue of my father 
was I appointed nor because of my family was I called and not now was I 
confirmed, but by the will of God and through Him have I reached this 
name’. Apparently, the stress here is on his modest origins. However, it 
seems that one should interpret these words somewhat literally, that is, 
that his appointment did not derive either from his family or lineage, but 
from the will of God, however this does not mean that he did not have an 
honourable background. On the contrary, there is evidence that he was 
apparently one of the descendants of Shemaiah Gaon. Firstly, it is worth 
noting the letter he evidently wrote before becoming Gaon to someone in 
Egypt, in which he mentions the Gaon ‘our Master’, and signs: ‘the 
younger Solomon b. Judah’. Solomon speaks there of letters to a certain 
‘Awkal, and it seems that he is speaking of an important international 
merchant who was famous at the time, Joseph b. Jacob ibn ‘Awkal. The 
letter deals with a matter of law, and also mentions a query put by Joshua 
he-haver, who may have been Joshua ha-Kohen he-haver b. Joseph, 
dayyan of Alexandria. Attached to this letter was one to Ascalon, which 
the recipient is asked to send to Ascalon for a shetut ( ddniq , a sixth of a 
dirham) which had been paid in advance, and the letter-carrier coming 
from Jerusalem is to take it to Ascalon on his way back. He is to deliver it 
to the son-in-law of Solomon b. Judah’s brother. Solomon b. Judah asks 
that a certain Manasseh should carry out this request. Common sense leads 
us to conclude that Manasseh is the brother of Solomon b. Judah and the 
father-in-law of the man in Ascalon. Indeed, among the Geniza docu¬ 
ments we find a receipt signed by a number of people, among them Sahlan 
b. Abraham, and also Manasseh ha-mishne (the deputy) btrrabi (as in 
Solomon b. Judah’s signature), and around the name, in tiny letters: 
‘great-grandson of Shemaiah, of blessed memory’. There is also a letter 
written by ‘Manasseh, the younger [Solomon b. Judah also calls himself 
‘the younger’ in his signatures] btrrabi , great-grandson of Shemaiah, of 

in a book published in 1914, see his Babylonische Geonim, 87ff. Marmorstein, JQR, NS 
8:1, 1917/8; in an article published a few years earlier, Marmorstein still assumed that 
Solomon b. Judah was the grandson of Joseph ha-Kohen (father of the Gaon Solomon 
ha-Kohen) see REJ, 68(1914), 40. See: Mann, JQR, NS 9(1918/9), 412ff; idem Jews, I, 
75-152, and the corresponding documents in vol. II, and the supplement there, 445ff; see 
also idem, Texts, I, 31CK345. See Goitein, Shatem, 1: 15, 1973/4 (= ha-Yishuv, 82ff). TS AS 
147,58, a small fragment, also belongs to the remaining letters of Solomon b. Judah, 
being part of a leaf in his handwriting, from which it is only possible to discern that a iierem 
setam (an anonymous excommunication) intended to obtain the rights of a certain man 
named Yahya, is being spoken of. 


674 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS, 849-901] 


blessed memory’. He asks the addressee, a cantor, brother of Zadok the 
scribe, to write a letter of recommendation to Alexandria for him, to be 
signed by Sar Shalom, ‘head of the community, bet-din and aliif of the 
yeshiva’, and the letter was apparently written from Sahrajt. Evidently it 
refers to people of the Babylonian (aliif and [av]-bet-din) communities, 
although the Shemaiah mentioned there is undoubtedly the abovemen- 
tioned Palestinian Gaon. This Manasseh composed a piyyut in honour of a 
certain Eleazar b. Joseph ha-Levi: ‘composed by the slave of your honour, 
Manasseh b. Judah, great-grandson ofgeonim’. Thus apparently we have 
here evidence that Solomon b. Judah was of Shemaiah Gaon’s lineage. The 
name of his grandfather, Berekhia, is found in the signature of the Gaon’s 
son, Abraham: ‘[Abraham he-haver in the great Sanhedrin] the son of R. 
Solomon head of the yeshiva Ge’on Ya‘aqo[v son of R. Judah]’ and tiny 
letters around the name, read alternately at the top and at the bottom: ‘ben 
Berekhia’. This is also confirmed in a piyyut, in which it states among 
other things: ‘our Master Solomon son of R. Judah great-grandson of 
Berekhia’. 

The family was from the Maghrib, as I assumed with regard to She¬ 
maiah Gaon, the father of Solomon b. Judah’s grandfather. Solomon b. 
Judah’s hometown of Fas is still mentioned, as for example when his rival 
Nathan b. Abraham calls him ‘al-Fasi’. It is likely that the family left Fas 
towards the end of the tenth century. This city fell to the Fatimids in 
Sha‘ban AH 368, that is March AD 978 (according to another source, it 
had already fallen in 959). In AH 389, that is AD 999, there was bitter 
fighting in the town and its vicinity, and it is very likely that these events 
were what led the family to leave the region and wander eastward until it 
came to Palestine. 133 

[861] As stated, there was evidently a marital connection between 
Solomon b. Judah and the priestly family; that is, he married the sister of 

133 Btrrabi, probably the singular of bene rav, scholars who were not counted with the main 
rows of the yeshivot in Babylonia; this clearly emerges from the account of Nathan the 
Babylonian, see in Neubauer, Mediaeval Jewish Chronicles, II, 87; see the detailed discussion 
on this term in the Talmudic sources: Friedman, Marriage, II, 41 Iff; and as noted there, 
Solomon b. judah did not use this term in the accepted sense, but wished to say that his 
father was a scholar. We do not know why he was in the habit of not mentioning the name 
of his father. In 58 , b, in the address, he calls himself‘Solomon son ofjudah the head’, and 
this was a letter he wrote before he became Gaon. Perhaps his father was granted a 
Babylonian title, rosh kalld, and the son refrained from using it because of the rancor of the 
Palestinian yeshiva towards the Babylonian yeshivot, particularly after he became Gaon. 
As to the events in Fas which may have caused the family to emigrate eastward towards 
the end of the tenth century, it is worth noting the responsum of Sherira Gaon to ‘queries 
asked of Sherira by the transferred community of Fas’, while in the responsum it said, 
‘who now live in Ashlr, after having been moved from Fas’, which is explicit evidence of 
the flight of thejews from Fas, and their settling in the town of Ashlr. The queries reached 
the yeshiva ‘during the kalld (gathering of the Babylonian yeshivot, which took place in 
Adar and Elul) of Adar in the year 1298’, i.e., February AD 987. See Lewin, Jahrbuch 
7(1909), 254. How he became a Gaon: 128 . The letter to Alexandria; 108 , It is interesting 


675 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon b. Joseph. It is possible that another link was 
established, if indeed Abraham son of the Gaon married the daughter of 
Solomon ha-Kohen (that is, his cousin on his mother’s side). The opening 
of a letter may perhaps provide evidence of this (only the opening has been 
preserved), in the handwriting of Abraham, son of the Gaon, to Isaac 
ha-Kohen ibn Furat, in which the ‘alatna of Solomon ha-Kohen, yesha' 
yuhash, is to be found. We find a similar instance in another of the letters of 
Abraham son of the Gaon, to Abraham and Jacob, sons ofMevasser, and 
to Halfon b. Jacob, all people of Fustat. This letter is headed by the name of 
the writer: ‘Abraham he-haver, son of the Gaon’, whereas we find in the 
signature: ‘yesha' yuhash’. 

I have already spoken of the dates of the demise of Solomon b. Judah’s 
predecessors, Josiah and Solomon ha-Kohen. There is no doubting the 
fact that Solomon b. Judah became Gaon after the death of Solomon 
ha-Kohen, that is in Tishri AM 4786, that is September AD 1025. A short 
time after he became Gaon, Solomon b. Judah wrote to Ephraim b. 
Shemaria: ‘I am weeping over myself and over such a time that is in need of 
me. I am not the right man for the people of these times; but what is there 
to be done, as the title has been called upon me, and to reject what our God 
has invested me with is out of the question’. In the same letter mention is 
made of Elhanan b. Shemaria, who was still alive at the time, for we know 
that he died in 1026. Further evidence that Solomon b. Judah was already 
Gaon in 1026 can be found in a court record written by his son Abraham, 
in Fustat, on 8 December 1026, signing there ‘Abraham son of R. Solo¬ 
mon Ge’on Ya'aqov’. Apparently the document closest to the outset of his 
holding the office of Gaon, was the letter of his son Abraham to David b. 
Aaron in Fustat, concerning the affair of Sedaqa b. Menahem, in which we 
find the ‘alama of the Gaon Solomon ha-Kohen, yesha‘ yuhash, and also 
the formula ‘our Master the Gaon’, undoubtedly referring to his father, 

that a letter being sent from Jerusalem to Ascalon had to go via Egypt, which would 
seem to indicate that the roads were impassable due to internal warfare. The receipt: TS 
16.191. The letter of Manasseh: TS 16.267, edited almost in its entirety in Mann, Jews, II, 
336, see there also: I, 249, where he expresses the (correct) opinion that the letter is from 
the eleventh century; see ibid ., II, 336, n. 2, on the piyyut; cf. Goitein, Mediterranean 
Society, II, 596, n. 30. The letter of Abraham, son of the Gaon: 114. The piyyut 
(great-grandson ofBerekhia): Bodl MS Heb f29, f. 71r, cf. Mann, Jews, I, 75. One can say 
that the sources complied with Halper’s opinion, who without any documentary basis 
wrote that Solomon b. Judah ‘inherited the seat of Gaon from his forefathers and strongly- 
believed that this office should be handed down from father to son’, see Hatequfa, 
18(1922/3), 194. Poznanski already noted that Solomon’s grandfather’s name was Bere- 
khia (Poznanski, Babylonische Geonim, 87), but did not mention his source. Nathan b, 
Abraham: 183, a, line 21; see also the letter of one of Nathan’s followers: 198, line 13. See 
also the petition to the authorities concerning the confirmation of the appointment of 
Joseph ha-Kohen as dayyan in Alexandria, 315, line 4: Sulayman b. Judah al-FasI. The 


676 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

to Solomon b. Judah, who had written to Sahlan b. Abraham on the 
matter of Sedaqa b. Menahem, and signed ‘head of the yeshiva’. 134 

[862] Record of Solomon b. Judah’s widespread and continuous activity 
has been preserved in the Geniza in 120 letters and fragments of letters 
written by him or his son, and additional letters sent to him or in which he 
is mentioned. Let us not forget that this correspondence was centred 
almost exclusively in Fustat, but his activities certainly encompassed a 
large number of communities, large and small, in Palestine and elsewhere. 
It seems that while he was Gaon, he was not in the habit of visiting 
communities, and his visit to Egypt, which he mentions in one of his 
letters, certainly took place before he became Gaon. He even explains in 
one of his letters that he refrains from travelling because of his age, 
speaking of a trip to Damascus on behalf of the Jerusalemite prisoners 
(jailed because of their debts, as we have seen). It is difficult for him to go 
to the market without a helping hand and even writing is impossible due to 
the frailty of his hands, and he is consequently dependant on others to 
write for him. In a letter to Sahlan b. Abraham, he complains of weakness 
and pains: ‘my eyes are dimmed’, he writes like a pupil ‘learning to write’, 
his lines are not always straight (‘sometimes they are crooked’), and he 
thinks that his end is approaching. An actual example of this can be found 
in a fragment of a letter of recommendation, evidently written by him in 
1048, for a man who asked that the recommendation be written by the 
Gaon himself, and one can indeed see that it is written by a trembling 
hand. Abraham, the son of the Gaon, confirms there that this is the 
handwriting of the Gaon, and a similar confirmation is made by Sahlan b. 
Abraham. Indeed, some of the letters in my collection are written by his 
son Abraham, or by Solomon b. Semah, or by Joseph ha-Kohen b. 
Solomon, and signed by the Gaon. In another letter, he also writes that his 
strength is ebbing and that his eyes are dimmed ‘with the burden of 
years’. 

Apparently, Solomon b. Judah spent a great deal of time in Ramla, and 
we find him there in 1029, during the terrible times of distress shortly 
before the end of the war against the Bedouin. In his letter, he describes the 
state of scarcity and poverty which he himself endures, the very hard 
winter, and the assistance he requires from Jasus al-Maghribl during his 
visits to Jerusalem, though his family do not want that help. If he stayed in 
Jerusalem throughout the entire period, his situation would be much 

events in Fas: Ibn ‘Idhari, 231, 249f; Ibn Zafir (printed), 22: Fas was already taken by 
al-Mu‘izz’ army, under the command ofjawhar, on 20 Ramadan 348, 24 November 959. 
134 The opening of the letter: 162, cf. Goitein, Baron Jubilee Volume, 522, n. 37; idem, Tarbiz, 
45(1975/6), 75. The letter to Fustat: 87. The letter to Ephraim b. Shemaria: 67, and 
Elhanan is mentioned there in line 29. The court record 63. The letters concerning $edaqa 
b. Menahem: 59 (see line 18: ‘our Master the Gaon’, 60). 


677 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

worse, for the people of Jerusalem are not to be relied upon (apparently 
because of their own destitution). His stay in Ramla was evidently the 
result of pressure on the part of the ‘elders of Ramla’, who asked him to 
remain there, for ‘they were like a herd of sheep without a shepherd’. Also 
there was a serious internal dispute in the city, which ‘was corrupted by 
the betrayal of evil men’. The nature of these evil men is not made clear to 
us. Finally he had no choice but to declare them excommunicated. In later 
years, when he had already made his home in Jerusalem, he would 
continue to stay in Ramla from time to time. 

At the outset of his holding office, Zadok ha-Levi b. Levi continued as 
his av-bet-din, and he, too, lived in Ramla and had a house there. Rawh 
ha-Kohen b. Pinhas, the Baghdadi cantor, writes at the end of 1029 to 
Ephraim b. Shemaria that he arrived in Tyre at first, after having been 
attacked and robbed by Bedouin of everything he possessed, and is now in 
Ramla and living with ‘our Master the av-het-dtn . From this we may 
perhaps understand why Zadok ha-Levi wrote to Ephraim b. Shemaria in 
an effort to help Rawh in Fustat, where he was trying to raise the money 
needed to return to Baghdad. 

Despite the sojourns in Ramla, the Gaon spent most of his time in 
Jerusalem, and there is no doubt that this was the seat of the yeshiva, from 
which the yeshiva’s letters and those of most of its personalities were sent. 
There is a passage in one of Solomon b. Judah’s letters apparently alluding 
to his move from Ramla and the settling into the new house injerusalem. 
In the letter to Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn Furat concerning help for 
the Muslim Qayn b. ‘Abd al-Qadir, mentioned earlier, he notes that ‘the 
family [Qayn’s] came to the place where I am now living’. Elsewhere the 
Gaon describes the beginning of his settling in Jerusalem, before he 
became Gaon. This was when he returned from Egypt and the Jerusa¬ 
lemites persuaded him to be their cantor, and he notes that: ‘I would pass 
the time, sometimes full, sometimes empty.’ Then he adds that the 
Jerusalemites have still not paid him anything, although the payment is 
now due for two years, for they have no money. 135 

[863] Solomon b. Judah was unquestionably a man of considerable 
moral and spiritual stature. He was imbued with a sense of mission, as if 

135 The visit to Egypt: 154, line 5. The matter of old age and frailty: 90, lines 17-20, 33-34; 
150, lines 9-10; 86, lines 22-23. The letter of recommendation: 144; see the letter in the 
handwriting of Joseph ha-Kohen: 173; see also 79, a, lines 8-12; where it says that 
Ephraim b. Shemaria’s letter was read to him by ‘the third’ (‘he read for me what was 
written there’); it emerges that he was unable to read it himself because of his weak 
eyesight. The distress in Ramla: 80, a, lines 18-31;Jasus = Jasus, see on him in Goitein, 
Shakm, 1(1973/4), 40, n. 37 (= Ha-yisluw. 99); it seems that Hillel b. al-Jasus, mentioned 
in 559, c, line 26 (the scroll of Abiathar) is his son. Pressure from the people of Ramla: 94, 
lines 8-15. The sojourn in Ramla: 116; in 159, the letter to Abraham ha-Kohen b. Haggai, 
he mentions that he wrote three letters from Ramla before this, and it seems that he was 


678 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849 - 901 ] 

the hand of God had placed him on the seat of the Gaon and charged him 
with standing guard over the Palestinian yeshiva and the Jewish popu¬ 
lation of Jerusalem. Together with his spiritual and moral qualities, one 
could also add that he was modest in his needs and ways, honest, re¬ 
strained and peace-loving. Some years before becoming Gaon, perhaps in 
1015, in a letter to Isaac ha-Kohen ibn Furat, who had suffered a setback in 
a court case with the heirs of his partner, he consoles him by extolling the 
eternal values: men must obey the moral order for ‘they are only trustees, 
appointed [by God] over everything they possess’. 

Perhaps one can most truly judge Solomon b. Judah, the man, by what 
he wrote to his son Abraham, for in a personal letter of this kind there is 
less likelihood that a person would write things that do not reflect his 
genuine inner feelings. In his letter, we find him rejecting proposals to 
behave as former geonim did and to accept additional income on the side 
from the communities - as he hints in the letter, his predecessors did this 
by way of improper actions on the part of appointees of the communities. 
He does not intend to be caught perpetrating a transgression, for in the 
future he would have to make his account with God. In a later letter, 
however, under the pressure of his dire straits and his heavy family 
burden, he enquires of Ephraim b. Shemaria about the possibility of 
receiving from ‘the payments that were for our Master Gaon and for the 
Av, may they rest in Paradise’ (he undoubtedly refers to Solomon ha- 
Kohen, his predecessor, and Zadok ha-Levi b. Levi), on condition that 
there is no transgression involved, however. In another letter, we hear 
complaints about his difficult plight — people think that ‘one can live on air’ 
and since his appointment as Gaon, ‘a peck of troubles from heaven’ have 
fallen upon him, by which he is certainly referring to family troubles, as 
we shall see. 

The forgiving and restrained character of Solomon b. Judah is revealed 
in a number of letters. He writes a letter of recommendation for a certain 
Sedaqa b. Menahem despite the fact that this man did him harm in the past. 
He stresses his own modesty at every opportunity, as one sees from the use 
of such terms as ‘the young’ or ‘the humble’ in his signatures, or the phrase 
‘and I am a worm and not a man’ which sometimes embellishes them. In 
one of the signatures he adds: ‘the humblest of the Rabbanite sect living in 
the Holy City’. To Ephraim b. Shemaria, he also preaches restraint and 
advises him how to behave with his entourage ‘and leave them a way to 
respect you’. He also speaks of himself as peace-loving, despising quarrels, 
and he does nothing without first consulting with the ‘av and the third’. He 
is also very critical of those scholars whose letters request benefits for 

there for a relatively long stay. The letter of Rawh: 211. Zadok’s letter: 212. Qayn b. ‘ Abd 

al-Qadir: 99, lines 16-17. The letter to Ephraim b. Shemaria: 84, lines 20ff. 


679 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


themselves but not for others, unlike the letters of merchants, which seek 
reciprocity in benefits. Hence he does not write much himself. In the same 
letter, he speaks in favour of giving; it is the giver who comes closer 
(i mitqarev ) to God (here it is worth noting the Muslim term of the same 
root, qurba, which means closeness to God, piety and awe) while the 
receiver of gifts moves away from Him and lessens his merits. His respect 
for his fellow-man is shown in Solomon b. Judah’s reaction to Joseph ibn 
al-Sijilmassfs dream, in which Moses, Aaron and Samuel, came to him 
and warned him of an imminent and atrocious decree. The Gaon certainly 
did not believe in miracles or dreams, but he nevertheless thought it 
proper to tell Joseph that he, too, had had this very dream for three nights. 

This characteristic moderation which he cultivated was evident in the 
stand he adopted in the dispute with the Karaites. He demanded, although 
unsuccessfully, that the yearly practice of declaring a ban on the Karaites 
on the Mount of Olives be discontinued. His son Abraham and the latter’s 
cousins, Joseph and Elijah, sons of Solomon ha-Kohen, were stubbornly 
fanatic and proclaimed the excommunication, with very bad results, and I 
shall return to the subject in the chapter on the Karaites. His son, Abra¬ 
ham, also showed the same zeal to act against the Karaites in Fustat and the 
Gaon, who knew his son only too well, seriously warned him not to 
intervene in the quarrel between the Rabbanites and the Karaites there. 136 

[864] Solomon b. Judah had endless family troubles. In one of his early 
letters, written before he became Gaon, he mentions three sons: Abraham, 
Mansur and Yahya (the latter was then in Baghdad studying with Hayy 
Gaon), while later on, we only hear about the one son — Abraham. We 
know nothing of the fate of the other two. There was also the difficulty 
with his son-in-law, Abu Sahl Manasseh ha-Kohen b. Abraham. In a letter 
to Abraham b. Sahlan, written in around 1020, that is before he became 
Gaon, he notes that Manasseh went to Fustat and that he sent two letters 
with him. It seems that from that time onward, Manasseh did not return to 
Jerusalem and the Gaon’s daughter remained an abandoned wife (‘ agiind ) 
in her father’s house, maintained by her father. Manasseh was the brother 
of Ephraim ha-Kohen, who was a man of considerable importance in the 
Fustat community. There seems to have been double marital connections 
between them and the family of Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon. Manasseh’s 


os The letter of Isaac ibn Furat: 53, lines 15—16. The letter to his son: 80, a, lines 32ff. To 
Ephraim b. Shemaria: 84, a, lines 16ff. The additional letter: 158, a, lines 2ff; he writes that 
he prays to God that he shall not fail ‘in any matter of the law, of permitted and forbidden, 
kosher and non-kosher; I trust that He who provides for everyone will provide for me’. 
The recommendation for Sedaqa b. Menahem: 60, lines 15ff. ‘The humblest’: 105. To 
Ephraim: 122, a, lines 6-11. Hatred of disputes: 152, lines 25ff. On the letters of the 
scholars: 137. The episode of the dream: 313. The excommunication of the 


68o 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 


first wife was evidently the sister of Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph, Solo¬ 
mon b. Judah’s predecessor, whereas the sister of these two brothers was 
married to Solomon ha-Kohen. Manasseh ha-Kohen married Solomon b. 
Judah’s daughter (who was much younger than her husband) after the 
death of his first wife. Afterwards, Manasseh began to send money to his 
wife, the daughter of the Gaon, injerusalem; and in his letter to his son, the 
Gaon mentions a letter that arrived from Manasseh containing a money 
order. What followed on this is very obscure. Solomon b. Judah writes to 
Abraham his son (in Tyre) and sends him greetings from Abu Sahl, who is 
Manasseh. Did he return to his wife? Moreover, the Gaon writes that 
Abraham’s sister, that is, his daughter and Manasseh’s wife, gave birth to a 
son in the seventh month of her pregnancy, but that the child had died. 
Later on, in one of his letters, he again complains about his son-in-law, 
who he claims, left his wife ‘three years ago’. The Gaon’s son discussed the 
matter with him when he was in Fustat in his brother Ephraim’s presence 
and also separately, for the Gaon could no longer bear his daughter’s 
weeping. Solomon b. Judah mentions here the great difference in age 
between Manasseh and his daughter. At one time, he submitted to the 
entreaties of his brother-in-law, the Gaon Solomon ha-Kohen, without 
worrying, for he was aware of the kind manner in which Manasseh had 
treated his first wife — that is, ‘she was much respected and was not in 
want’. Now his daughter cries all the time, as stated, and she claims that 
her father takes the trouble to impose law and justice on strangers but is 
not concerned with justice for his own daughter. Solomon b. Judah, it 
emerges from that letter, also sent a personal letter to Manasseh, warning 
him that if he does not return, it will be necessary to appoint a trustee over 
him, by which he probably meant that one of the travellers to Fustat 
would be given a power-of-attorney to sue him there before the court. At 
long last, peace evidently prevailed - as emerges from a letter the Gaon 
wrote in about 1048 to Ephraim b. Shemaria, in which he asks him to help 
his son-in-law Manasseh with regard to a compound which had been 
‘stolen from him’. He is referring to a house in the name of their mutual 
brother-in-law, Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph, the former Gaon, but 
which actually belonged to Manasseh ha-Kohen and his sister, the wife of 
Solomon ha-Kohen. In the days of ben habura, that is, the period of the 
Bedouin revolt (the Banu Jarrah, which has been discussed in sec. 590), a 
large fine was imposed on Manasseh which he was unable to pay, and so he 
borrowed 100 dinars from a certain Khalaf b. ‘Allun. The latter died, but 
his widow was not content with the return of the money and claimed that 
she had a deed of purchase on the house, drawn up before a Muslim, and 

Karaites: 85. The warning about Fustat: 80, b. The restrained approach to the Karaites is 

also reflected in 122, the letter to Ephraim b. Shemaria. 


68i 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

that she had promised the house as her daughter’s dowry. It is implied that 
the case had been discussed in Ramla (evidently before the cadi), but the 
opposing side had no proof. One can assume that the case was about to 
come up before a higher instance, in Fustat, and this was the reason why 
the Gaon asked Ephraim b. Shemaria to help. 

Apparently, Solomon b. Judah had other family troubles as well. Five 
women ‘without a man’ sit around him, he complains in one of his letters, 
undoubtedly referring to his abandoned daughter, his two other daugh¬ 
ters, and perhaps also to his daughter-in-law (for his son was frequently 
travelling about), and perhaps to his granddaughters, for he mentions 
there that one of his daughters is a widow with one son and two daughters. 
It seems that his daughter, the wife of Manasseh ha-Kohen (who in the 
meantime has become a widow) calls herself, in a letter to Nehorai b. 
Nissim from Bilbays: ‘your relative, daughter of the head of the yeshiva, 
of blessed memory’. She was evidently related to Nehorai through his 
wife, who was a member of the priestly family, the relationship being 
evidently through Manasseh and Ephraim, sons of Abraham ha-Kohen. 
Thus, the reference may be to Solomon b. Judah’s daughter, who was 
perhaps Nehorai’s sister-in-law. 137 

[865] Apart from personal and family problems, it emerges from Solo¬ 
mon b. Judah’s letters that his eminent status attracted considerable dis¬ 
may. Even before he became Gaon, in about 1020, he complained that 
Jerusalem did not receive him graciously, and that the city was full of 
slander and envy. It is a small town and called ‘a threshold of poison’ 
(Zech., xii:2). And when he occupied the office of Gaon, his major com- 

137 The sons of Solomon b. Judah: 53, lines llff. Manasseh goes to Fustat; 58, b, margin; see 
further on Manasseh: 75, a, lines 34ff; 80 (the letter to his son Abraham), a, lines 9-10; in 
81, line 26, the Gaon mentions Manasseh, who ‘went to Zoan [Fustat] to his brother’ 
(Ephraim ha-Kohen); and indeed he ‘looked after her a little’, that is, sent her some 
money; 83, b, lines 3ff, where there is a strong complaint against him; because of him the 
Gaon has many hours of anguish ( mihna ); Manasseh still owed the bridal money; ibid ., on 
recto, lines 14ff, the Gaon rejects the rumours being spread by the brothers Ephraim and 
Manasseh that it was due to them that his status in the yeshiva rose during the former 
Gaon’s period, until he was made av-bet-din; in 94, line 18, he mentions a personal letter he 
wrote to Ephraim ha-Kohen, Manasseh’s brother, and there too, he seems to have spoken 
about Manasseh. The matter of the birth: 115. The story of the marriage and other details: 
119, lines 15ff. The reconciliation and the matter of the house: 147, a, margin and further. 
The ‘third’, whom Solomon b. Judah criticises there for not dealing with this matter 
properly (‘he wants others to make the effort while he sits still’), is evidently Joseph 
ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon, and not as in Mann ,Jews, 1,131, who writes that it refers to 
Solomon ha-Kohen’s nephew. ‘The five women’: 81, line24. ‘The daughter of the head of 
the yeshiva’: 486; it is difficult to see any other head of the yeshiva who could be the father 
of this woman; Goitein, Tarbiz , 45(1975/6), 71f, assumed that the writer was the 
daughter of the Gaon Solomon ha-Kohen, and that she was married to her cousin, Judah 
ha-Kohen b. Joseph, ‘ha-rav’; the matter of the ran has been explained above (sec. 378), 
and this possibility seems to be excluded; the purpose of her letter was to obtain the sum of 
forty dinars owed to her from Nehorai’s family, which means, Nehorai himself, and Abu 


682 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 


plaint was that the people did not listen to him, ‘I am left without authority 
and I am merely a name’. Indications of the opposition that was beginning 
to form only a few years after he became Gaon, can be seen in the letter of 
the av-het-dm Zadok ha-Levi b. Levi, written in 1029. Ideas about oppo¬ 
sition already occurred to Zadok, or so it is implied in a letter written by 
him at the beginning of Solomon b. Judah’s office as Gaon ‘when the head 
of the holy yeshiva, may God preserve him, began his rule’. On the basis 
of the greetings Zadok wishes to convey through the addressee and the 
personalities he mentions, one can recognise his supporters: Josiah b. 
Aaron, grandson ofjosiah Gaon, who lived in Sahrajt; Farah rosh ha-pereq 
b. Mu’ammal b. Perahia the judge; Abu Nasr Aaron b. Ephraim he-haver 
b. ‘Eli b. Tarasun; the Tustari brothers; David ha-Levi b. Isaac; Haggai 
ha-Kohen b. Joseph (the father of Abraham ha-Kohen b. Haggai). Evi¬ 
dently, some of these formed the nucleus which later became a faction of 
supporters of Nathan b. Abraham in his struggle against Solomon b. 
Judah - which we shall deal with in due course. 

The feeling that everywhere he was surrounded by censure and even 
slander undoubtedly accompanied Solomon b. Judah at all times. In one of 
his letters, he stresses that he does not complain of the criticism directed 
against him but of those who are angered by his legal decisions, for in 
matters of law, he prays that the Lord should ‘guide him in the way of the 
law, in what is permitted or forbidden, in what is proper and improper’. 
One can understand that the major pretext for rivalry was his legal 
decisions, in which he evidently tried to be consistent and uncompromis¬ 
ing. He regrets that God has made him Gaon; ‘I wish he would have 
released me’ (of the office), he writes, ‘so that there would not have been 
those who curse me in my lifetime and after my death’. Many envied him, 
believing he enjoyed many benefits, and some raised false charges against 
him. Indications of this unpleasant atmosphere can also be found in a secret 
letter written by Joseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon to Ephraim b. 
Shemaria, where it implied that certain individuals are disrespectful to the 
Gaon. The letter describes a gathering (of people of the yeshiva?) in the 
majlis (apparently meaning the reception hall) of the home of the writer’s 
brother Elijah, to discuss the impending atrocious decree on the Jews of 
Jerusalem on the part of the ‘boys of the city’, that is, the authorities. The 
two communities declared a public fast and they all went to ‘the cave’, that 
is the synagogue, where someone (the cantor?) insulted the Gaon. This 
man was forbidden to enter the synagogue, but the parties were reconciled 
afterwards. On the sabbath, neither the writer (Joseph ha-Kohen) nor ‘the 
third’ (his brother, Elijah) went to the synagogue. Only Abraham, son of 

Sa'id, who is evidently Joseph b. Moses b. Barhiin al-Tahirtl, Nehorai’s cousin and 

partner. 


683 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

the Gaon, ‘the fourth’, went there and pronounced a homily on the 
pericope ‘and it came to pass on the eighth day’ (Lev., ix: 1; read in Adar II 
or Nisan). Thus an atmosphere of depression and internal dissension 
prevailed. 

An affair of a special order was that of a sum of money from the 
yeshiva’s funds, nineteen dinars in all, which the Gaon pocketed for his 
private use. In a letter to Abraham b. Sahlan, Solomon b. Judah explains 
what happened. He was forced to help himself to the money because of 
‘the hard times’; his letter was evidently written when the war in Palestine 
was at its height, towards the end of 1028. In Fustat, they assumed at first 
that the money went astray during its transfer, and a certain Abraham b. 
Isaac (evidently: Ibn Furat) even brought with him a letter from Abraham 
son of the Gaon, who was staying in Fustat at the time, ‘about the loss’; 
that is, the loss of the money. The Gaon gave that Abraham b. Isaac five 
dinars and also a taltt (prayer shawl) and a suit of clothing to take to his son 
to sell for five dinars in Fustat - in this way, accounting for ten dinars. He 
received a confirmation of this from Abraham b. Isaac and also from a 
certain person called Levi. However, in the meantime, the man who had 
donated the nineteen dinars began pressing him and the Gaon received 
letter after letter concerning the matter and he feared that the outcome 
would be a quarrel. He solemnly promises to repay the remainder to the 
Jerusalemites and it is not clear whether he means the ‘Jerusalemites’ in 
Fustat or the funds for the poor ofjerusalem. In the continuation, the Gaon 
mentions in detail various sums which were sent to Jerusalem and how 
they were received and handled. Evidently Ephraim ha-Kohen b. Abra¬ 
ham and his brother Manasseh (the son-in-law of the Gaon) are among the 
leaders of those agitating against him in the financial affair. Many similar 
details are to be found in a letter he wrote at the same time to his son 
Abraham in Fustat, and there too, he writes of the money he took and how 
he intends to return it. It is likely that the matter of the nineteen dinars 
grew like a snowball and we find a letter written from Qayrawan to 
Ephraim b. Shemaria in 1035, that is, six and a half years later, in which the 
sum had grown to sixty dinars - though perhaps this was just a rumour. 
That letter mentions letters on the matter being sent to the Nagid (of the 
Maghrib, Jacob b. ‘Amram) in Mahdiyya, stating that sixty dinars were 
sent by the man in charge of funds ‘in order that all the people of the 
yeshiva should enjoy it but the head of the yeshiva took the money for 
himself and everyone was left empty-handed’. The writer doubts whether 
there is any truth in the rumour but he intends to clarify the matter during 
his impending meeting with the Nagid. 138 

138 The complaints: 58, b, lines 7ff; they do not listen to him: 86, line 21. Zadok’s letter: 210, 

lines 26ff. Criticism ofhis decisions: 158. Regret on his being Gaon: 137, b, line 15. Joseph 


684 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 


[866] Just how marked was the tension between Solomon b. Judah and 
his rivals, which found its main outlet in the division with Nathan b. 
Abraham, as we shall see below, can be observed in the episode of‘Eli b. 
Joshua al-Ladhiqi. The episode is mentioned incidentally in a letter from 
some anonymous follower of Nathan b. Abraham, who explains his point 
of view after the dispute. This ‘Eli was the uncle of the writer on his 
mother’s side, and was a teacher and permanent cantor in Raqqa, and came 
to settle injerusalem. Here, he apparently offended the Gaon (perhaps he 
is the cantor mentioned in the previous section, about whom Joseph 
ha-Kohen wrote to Ephraim b. Shemaria). Solomon b. Judah drove him 
out ofjerusalem and he was forced to go to live in Ramla. In his testament, 
he requested that he should not be buried injerusalem because Solomon b. 
Judah lives there. The writer himself, who is an old man and sees himself 
as learned in the Torah, also cannot live in the same city with Solomon b. 
Judah. 

An unusual accumulation of bitterness and grievance amassed around 
the Jerusalem family, named in letters ‘the children of Shuway", that is, 
the children of Yeshu‘a (Shuway* being an Arabic diminutive for 
Yeshu'a). We do not have much information about them. These ad¬ 
versaries of Solomon b. Judah were evidently of the family of Semah 
(called Sabgha) b. Yeshu‘a. The elder of the family was Mevorakh b. 
Yeshu'a, and he was probably the only member of the family who 
maintained good relations with the Gaon, who writes in one of his letters 
that it is thanks to Mevorakh that he refrains from acting against the 
family. In the same letter, addressed to Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn 
Furat, the Gaon complains that these people make his life a misery and 
incite the public injerusalem and even in Ramla against him. They vilify 
him, and especially his son Abraham, in letters. They also try to recruit the 
Karaites against him and even speak to their nasi, Abu’l-Hasan Josiah 
(Josiah b. Solomon b. David b. Boaz). Apparently, the Gaon fears that 
they may influence the Tustari brothers against him, and therefore he has 
already appealed directly to ‘the great, mighty and tremendous elder’, that 
is, to Hesed al-Tustari. Solomon b. Judah reaches the height of aspersion 
in another letter he sent to the same Abraham ha-Kohen, to Ramla. He 
describes there the matter of a court claim in which both he and the 
Jerusalem cadi are involved, and accuses the Shuway* family of interven¬ 
ing on behalf of one of the parties. Apart from this, they are mistreating 


ha-Kohen’s letter: 409; the matter of the decree and the public fast is perhaps connected 
with the description of the affair of Joseph b. al-Sijilmassi and his dream, see 313. The 
letter to Abraham b. Sahlan: 76; talit may also evidently mean some piece of clothing 
worn on the body, which he calls in Arabic in his letter to his son, badan\ see the letter to 
his son Abraham, 80 (badan in verso, line 16). The letter from Qayrawan: 330, lines 18ff. 


685 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


the Gaon’s family, and he asks Abraham ha-Kohen to obtain a letter from 
the amir (of Ramla) to his colleague (sahib, who is the amir of Jerusalem) 
with the request that he take action against them and prevent them from 
behaving in this manner. However, it seems that these adversaries became 
reconciled afterwards, as can be understood from a letter in the hand¬ 
writing of Abraham, son of the Gaon, signed by the Gaon, and addressed 
also to Abraham ha-Kohen. He is asked to get the cadi of Ramla, Abu’l- 
Ma'all, to act in the matter of the house of the Shuway' family, which had 
been taken from them on the basis of false evidence given at the Muslim 
court in favour of an old Muslim, an affair which I have already described. 
True, the Shuway' family deserve this punishment, he writes, for they are 
forever at odds with what others do, but this is a public matter, and this 
must be the first consideration in such a case. It seems that the Shuway' 
family were also active in the dispute with Nathan b. Abraham, naturally 
siding with the Gaon’s opponents. 

We have seen that the Gaon expressed fears that people would curse him 
even after his death, just as they do during his lifetime. It seems indeed that 
this fear was justified, as there were some who continued to hate him after 
he died. One such instance is immortalised in a letter written from Jerusa¬ 
lem by Hayyim he-haver b. Solomon, some years after the passing of the 
Gaon. He mentions there a certain ‘Imran, who vilifies the memory of 
Solomon b. Judah, and the writer sharply takes exception to this. 139 

[867] Solomon b. Judah’s letters are illuminating evidence of the rich 
quality of his personality and activities. Generally, it is not difficult to 
identify his own characteristic handwriting and the elegant handwriting of 
his son Abraham. The ‘alama, the distinguishing phrase of his letters, was 
yesha‘ rav (a ‘great deliverance’). His style was also typical, both in letters 
written in Hebrew and in Arabic, and it is interesting and merits special 
study. 

Apart from letters, there are also a number of piyyutlm in the Geniza 
written by Solomon b. Judah, many of which have been recorded in 
works of students of Hebrew poetry, and some of which have been edited. 
As to responsa on matters of law, one has been preserved on the laws 
concerning inheritance, written in Arabic; this was the case of a father who 

139 The episode of‘Eli b. Joshua: 198. The letter to Abraham ha-Kohen: 142; cf. Goitein, 
Baron Jubilee Volume, 51 If; idem., Mediterranean Society, II, 243. In a letter from Qayrawan 
to Ephraim b. Shemaria, 330, which contains the matter of the rumours about the Gaon 
who took for himself sixty dinars intended for the yeshiva, a certain Mawhub is men¬ 
tioned, the in-law of b. Isaiah (ha-mithabber, see line 9, not: who travels together, as 
translated in Mann, Jews, I, 124); perhaps the reference is to an in-law of the Shuway' 
family; also mentioned there is ‘the known representative’ b. Sha'ya (see in 432, lines 
15-16), of Fustat, of a well-known family of merchants; perhaps they are also of the 
Shuway' family. The other letter to Abraham ha-Kohen: 101. The matter of the house: 
117. Hayyim he-haver: 463. 


686 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 


bequeathed his property to one of his two sons and left nothing to the 
other. In a brief responsum, lucidly phrased, the Gaon decided that the 
witnesses had to be interrogated with regard to the expressions which had 
been used by the deceased when he was dictating his will (undoubtedly 
from the death-bed). We also have a fragment (in poor condition) dealing 
with the discussion on the food of the gentiles, in which he also includes 
laws of impurity and purity, and of conversion to Judaism. On the latter, 
he comments on what is said in the book of Ezra. The end of a responsum 
has also been preserved which he wrote about a woman’s marriage deed 
which had been drawn up on the intermediate days of a feast, and it seems 
that the query was whether this was a transgression. The Gaon proves that 
this is a case for leniency. 

In a letter to Sahlan b. Abraham, Solomon b. Judah expresses his 
reservations about the midrashlm., the haggadot, as he calls them. These are 
merely personal opinions, and whoever has some intelligence can invent 
homilies on the Bible ‘different from what is said’ (in the midrash). 
Nevertheless, here and there, he did introduce phrases from midrashlm 
into his letters. 140 

[868] The son of the Gaon, Abraham, enjoyed a special status in the 
yeshiva. He was his father’s right-hand man, writing his letters (and also 
court records) for him and travelling on various missions on behalf of the 
yeshiva. This was not an unusual phenomenon, and we find similar 
instances in the Babylonian yeshivot as well. In the Palestinian yeshiva, we 
have already encountered the pair Meir Gaon and his son Aaron, and 
below we shall meet Elijah ha-Kohen Gaon and his son Abiathar. There 
were certainly others but we only have sources on those mentioned here. 

Among the missions which the Gaon imposed on his son Abraham, that 
of the latter’s journey to Fustat in 1026 is clearly evident. In Iyar 1337 Sel. 
that is, April or May 1026, Abraham writes a deed of trusteeship in his 
handwriting, in which he appoints ‘Eli b. Yefet to be trustee over the 
orphans of Moses ha-Kohen b. Ghulayb, who are Ghulayb, the eldest, a 
daughter named Mulk and a little boy aged four. One may assume 
that they were relatives of the priestly family of geonim in Jerusalem. The 
son (here named Ghulayb, a diminutive) is evidently Ghalib (Joseph?) 


140 Yesha‘ rav was also the 'alama of Sherira Gaon, see: Bodl MS Heb c 28, f.49, in Mann, 
JQR, NS 8(1917/8), 359. Marx, PAAJR, 16(1946/7), 195, wrote on ‘more than fifty 
letters’ of Solomon b. Judah, but as one can see in my collection, their number is more 
than twice that. The poems of Solomon b. Judah, see in Davidson, Osar, see also: Zulai, 
Sinai, 25(1948/9), 48-52; Scheiber, Tarbiz, 22(1950/51), 171 Tf; Habermann, Sinai, 
53(1962/3), 186ff; ENA NS 18, f. 4u contains two fragments of a piyyut of Solomon b. 
Judah in his handwriting. The responsum concerning the legacy: 157; the fragment of a 
responsum: 160; the matter of the marriage deed: Mosseri ia 20 (formerly L 290); cf. the 
introduction to 83. The matter of the midrashlm: 146, lines 24-25; sayings from the 


687 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


ha-Kohen b. Moses, who afterwards became the son-in-law of Ephraim 
b. Shemaria, while Abraham, son of the Gaon, was a relative by marriage, 
and it is possible that the latter’s journey to Fustat was made in order to 
participate in the funeral of that Moses ha-Kohen. A receipt from the same 
year written by Abraham the son of the Gaon in Fustat, has been pre¬ 
served. In it, Turayk, daughter of Abraham ibn Qurdusi, extends credit to 
the merchants’ representative Muhassin (Mevorakh) b. Husayn, known 
by the nickname Ibn ukht Sham'an, ‘the son of Simon’s sister’. In the same 
year, there is another court deed, of 8 December 1026, written by the 
Gaon’s son in Fustat, in which he and Ephraim b. Shemaria are the 
signatories. This is a receipt crediting the Fustat parnasjacob b. Mevasser. 
Abraham also used his stay in Fustat in order to deal with the problem of 
the imprisoned Jerusalemite debtors, and the Gaon asks Ephraim b. She¬ 
maria not to detain Abraham in Fustat needlessly and to see to it that he 
does not enjoy any benefits from his stay. Another mission occurred 
apparently in the summer of1029, when the son of the Gaon went to Tyre, 
and it seems that from there he went to Sova, which is Aleppo. According 
to what we find in his father’s letter to Sahlan b. Abraham, he went there 
to ‘bring back some objects which had been left there’, perhaps from the 
time the family lived in Aleppo or else he had fled there during the events 
of 1024—1029. The journey to Aleppo was undoubtedly only possible after 
the victory of the Fatimid army in Uqhuwana (12 May 1029). In around 
1030, Abraham, son of the Gaon, again paid a visit to Egypt, and we have 
information that he also visited such country towns as Munyat al-qa’id 
and Sahrajt. In Fustat, in Elul 1342 Sel. (beginning 23 August AD 1031), 
he wrote a court record in which Salman b.Shablb, known as al-Ashqar 
(‘the red-head’) was found to be the losing party. This led to an outburst of 
temper against Abraham, son of the Gaon, and the judges, on the part of 
Salman b. Shablb. The result was that Ephraim b. Shemaria declared a ban 
on him until he repented. Apparently, at about the same time as this 
incident, a huge scandal took place in the synagogue of the ‘Palestinians’ in 
Fustat at the hour the two congregations (the ‘Babylonians’ and the 
‘Palestinians’) assembled to listen to the homily of Abraham, son of the 
Gaon. Some participants seem to have insulted him, and Abraham wrote a 
letter to his father, on his own behalf and on behalf of the people of Fustat, 
asking him to excommunicate the trouble-makers. On the same trip, he 
apparently visited Alexandria as well. The people of the Alexandrian 
community wrote to the ‘Palestinians’ in Fustat and explained that they 
were unable to deal with collecting ransom money for the prisoners 
because ‘the community was busy supplying the needs of his honourable 

midrashlm in Solomon b. Judah’s letters can be located with the help of the marginal notes 

in my collection, with the help of the Hebrew Index. 


688 



THE GEONtM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 


great Sanctity, our Lord and Master Abraham he-haver, son of our Lord 
the Gaon, may Heaven preserve him’. That was during the week of 
Passover, in 1031. In another letter, Abraham evidently informs the 
people of Fustat that ‘we are coming to you on this week; may our Rock 
. . . bring about our encounter with you with a good outcome’ (3 Decem¬ 
ber 1031). On 27June 1033, he is in Tyre and Solomon b. Judah writes a 
letter to him from Ramla, from which we understand that Abraham is 
about to leave there in order to take some merchandise to Damascus. The 
letters addressed to him were sent to Moses he-haver of Tyre (the father of 
Samuel). 141 

[869] Abraham, son of the Gaon, was well-placed in the scale of the 
yeshiva’s titles, and reached the ‘fourth’. In the draft of a letter from 
Ephraim b. Shemaria to Abraham’s father, the Gaon, he calls Abraham the 

141 In the Pumbedita yeshiva, Sherira and his son Hayy, were outstanding and there were 
other fathers and sons who stood out; see for instance the epistle of Samuel ha-Kohen b. 
Hofni: Bodl MS Heb f 34, fs. 39-46, edited by Cowley, JQR, 18 (1906), 40 Iff, fol. 45, 
top, where he mentions as a special category among the important figures in the yeshiva, 
the ‘sons of geonim’ (who were in the Sura yeshiva with him, such as Dosa b. Saadia); a 
leading place is given to his own son, ‘Israel, the scribe of the yeshiva, our son’; cf. Mann, 
Texts, I, 150f. The deed of trusteeship: 61; Consist, isr. VIID, f. 4v is a court deed written 
by Yefet b. David one year later, on 18 Av 1338 Sel., 24 July AD 1027, in which the 
abovementioned Ghulayb ha-Kohen b. Moses appoints as trustee of his father’s inherit¬ 
ance, a certain Joseph b. Yeshu‘a (who is also mentioned in 201, lines 8-11 and in 331, line 
26). The receipt; 62. The letter to Jacob b. Mevasser: 63. The matter of the prisoners; 66. 
The mission to Tyre: 79, lines 8ff. Aleppo: 86. The journey in 1030: 70. The case of 
Salman: 102, The commotion in the synagogue: 164; see a similar complaint: 332: a 
Spaniard went up to the podium to preach on the sabbath without mentioning the rayyis , 
that is, the Gaon. Such instances teach us to what extent the synagogue was the centre of 
community life, where all its inner quarrels were expressed. The fact that the prayers were 
interrupted when there were serious grievances, can be seen in the case of Eleazar the 
teacher b. Samuel, of whom it was said that ‘twice, he stopped the reading in the presence 
of the congregation and of the court’, and demanded that justice be accorded him after he 
was falsely charged (according to him); see 331. This custom they called istighatha. On this 
matter see also the complaints of Dosa’s orphans, 217; Assaf, Batte ha-din, 25f, and also 
Teshuvot (1942), 105f, quotes on this matter what was said in PT, Pe’a, 15d: the saying of 
R. Yonathan to a man whose son refused to support him: ‘go and close the synagogue 
before him so that he be ashamed’ (different from Assaf’s interpretation); we also have a 
responsum of a Babylonian Gaon, that one does not behave in this way in Babylonia, for 
carrying out the law is the responsibility of the court and not the public. For the purpose 
of comparison, it is worth noting the episode of a woman of Spain, who interrupted the 
prayers in the synagogue for several days ‘in order to get her marriage deed’; see 
document No. 18, from the documents of the Catalonian Jews, edited by Millas y 
Vallicrosa, Institut d'Estudis Catalans, Memories, I (3), Barcelona 1927; cf. the review of F. 
Baer, on Finkelstein’s Jewish Self-Government, in MGWJ, 71(1927), 393; see also on the 
custom ofinterrupting the prayers; Baron, SRHJ, V, 66f; 321, n. 81, and more references 
there; see on this custom in Islam: al-§ull, 66 (cf. Canard’s translation, 116): the Hashimite 
sharijs (the offspring of‘Ali and ‘Abbas) who were in difficulties because their allowances 
had been delayed, ‘painted their faces black and prevented the imam of the western bank 
[in Baghdad] from praying'. Only after great efforts, was the praying resumed, but he 
shortened the khutba (the sermon). The letter from Alexandria: TS 24,29, line 35ff. The 
letter from 1031: 114. The letter to Tyre: 115. 


689 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

‘sixth’, when Abraham was in Fustat. In a deed of trusteeship which he 
wrote in ‘the city of Ramla near Lod, in the patrimony of the tribe of 
Judah’, he signs ‘Abraham, the fourth of the havura’. In a letter written by 
Solomon b. Judah to Nethanel ha-Levi b. Halfon, he also calls his son ‘our 
son, the fourth’. Apparently, Abraham became ‘the fourth’ some time 
after 1045, in the aftermath of the death of Nathan b. Abraham, when 
Joseph ha-Kohen became av-bet-dln, and his brother Elijah became ‘the 
third’. 

It seems that unlike his father, Abraham was not characterised by his 
modesty. In a letter to a friend in Fustat, of which only a fragment is 
legible, there is a list of objects that he asks to be bought for him, among 
them precise instructions for a head covering (ghitara ) and other things. 
We have also seen that the Gaon himself asked Ephraim to see to it that his 
son should not benefit from any favours. In one of his letters to Ephraim b. 
Shemaria he expresses his frank displeasure at his son’s mission in Fustat 
(evidently in 1026), for instead of lamenting the fate of the ‘indebted 
prisoners’ of Jerusalem, he spends his time enjoying himself: he ‘dresses 
and covers himself and gets involved in public disputes by visits and 
investigations. It is not surprising then, in the words of his father, that he 
has become the object of slander and plots. 

As he was a facile scribe and had an elegant handwriting, Abraham 
engaged in copying piyyutlm and various other writings. He was preoc¬ 
cupied with the matter of the calendar, and it seems that he copied a treatise 
on the principles of the calendar, in rhyme, or perhaps wrote it himself; it 
is written there seder ha-‘ibbur (the order of intercalation). A fragment of 
the Passover Haggadah which he copied has been preserved, as have been 
some fragments of the Babylonian Talmud, a responsum in Arabic con¬ 
cerning the slaughtering laws and something from a Bible commentary 
(on Saul and David). In my collection there is a fragment of a letter he 
wrote (to Fustat, evidently) regarding the formulae of the deed of divorce 
and especially the passage which begins, ‘and this shall be the divorce letter 
from me’. Abraham also wrote what can be considered the oldest version, 
in Judaeo-Arabic, of the Jewish story of BahTra, the monk who met the 
prophet of Islam. 

Solomon b. Judah died in Iyar 1362 Sel., April AD 1051, or shortly 
before that. We know this from the seliha written in his memory by 
Ephraim b. Shemaria, which is dated the middle of Iyar 1362; but he 
certainly died earlier than that and the date conforms more or less to the 
time his death became known in Fustat. As to his son Abraham, from 
what we can construe from a letter written by Israel b. Sahlun, it is implied 
that after his father’s death, he lived in Ramla and was involved in quarrels 
over ‘the market’, that is, over the slaughtering there. In connection with 


690 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

this, a certain Maymun al-Dawla is mentioned, perhaps a Muslim official 
who intervened in that affair, which is utterly obscure. In a letter written 
later on, in March 1062, Israel b. Sahlun mentions the dajatir (the quires) of 
‘the fourth, of blessed memory’, which, he writes were no longer for sale, 
since his sister’s son had taken them and had no intention of selling them. 
From this we learn that Abraham died some ten years after his father. 142 


The affair of Nathan b. Abraham 

[870] Nathan b. Abraham was the scion of a family of geonim. The 
colophon in the Arabic story of the exilarch Bustanai attributes the story to 
him, on the basis of what had been handed down to him from his fore¬ 
fathers, ‘the holy [heads of] the yeshivot’. We know the name of his grand¬ 
father, Saul, and that Nathan was ‘the son of the sister of b. Yohai av. 

Yohai 

I 

b. Yohai 
av-bet-din 


■ sister of - 
b. Yohai. 


Saul 

I 

Abraham 


■Nathan 


The genealogy of Nathan b. Abraham 

It seems that the av, that is av-bet-din, was the son of Yohai and the uncle 
of Nathan on his mother’s side, for it was said that Nathan was appointed 
to the office of av-bet-din in the yeshiva, which had previously been held by 
his mother’s brother (’we gave him the place of his maternal uncle’). We 
may venture to assume what as yet cannot be proven, namely that the 
claimed descent from geonim was through the mother, and that the 
reference is to the earlier priestly dynasty, the descendants of Samuel 
ha-Kohen Gaon. This is to say that Yohai, grandfather of Nathan on his 

142 ‘The sixth’: 334, a, line 12; b, lines 7-8. The deed from Ramla: 169, line 20. The request for 
goods: 163. The complaints of Solomon b. Judah: 66. The object of slander. 142, lines 18, 
24—25. Writings in his handwriting: ULC Or 1081J 38e (apparently a qedushta, a fragment 
beginning: nisgelot qdl ‘al ha-mayim); ENA 3184, f. 3, containing the matter of the 
calendar, in rhyme; see a qerova by ha-Kallir copied by him: PER H 8, which is a leaf from 
an entire quire he evidently copied. The Haggadah of Passover: ULC Add 3366. From the 
BT: TS Ar. Box 30, f. 171: Yev. 77b. The responsum and the Bible commentary: TS Ar. 
Box 22, f. 13. The formulary of the divorce: 168. The story of Bahlra: TS AS 161.32, 
which I shall discuss elsewhere. TS AS 125.74v is a fragment in his handwriting, evidently 
the opening of a letter. Also preserved in the Geniza, written by Abraham b. Solomon 
Gaon, is a leaf from a quire with part of an enumeration of the precepts, which, I believe, 
are unlike anything known to us in this area; the precepts preserved are from the fourth 
(the prayer) to the tenth (the interdiction of robbery, or illegal acquisition); see DK 242 
e-f. The seliha written by Ephraim b. Shemariah: 335; Israel b. Sahlan’s letter: 472, b; the 
matter of the quires: 482, b, line 9. 


691 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


mother’s side, was the descendant of this family. Indeed, we have seen that 
the name Y ohai is to be found in the lineage of this family. The fact that the 
name of his uncle on his mother’s side was included in his appellation, 
speaks in favour of this assumption, which goes to show that the mother’s 
side was considered the more illustrious. If they had traced the descent 
from geonim on the father’s side, we would have come across some sign of 
this and would have found the appellation ‘great-grandson of the Gaon 
so-and-so’, as was the case in other instances. 

One can add another detail here, and that is Nathan b. Abraham’s 
‘alama, the formula used at the end of letters, which was yesha' yeqarev 
(may He hasten deliverance, as against Solomon b. Judah’s yesha‘ rav, ‘a 
great deliverance’). We find this ‘alama in Salama (Solomon) ha-Kohen b. 
Joseph’s letter, written from Ramla to Shemaiah he-haver b. Josiah, the 
grandson of the Shemaiah Gaon mentioned earlier. Apparently this ‘alama 
was commonly used by the priestly family. It also seems that this Solomon 
ha-Kohen of Ramla was an offspring of the family of priestly geonim 
known to us from the tenth century. Naturally, this has nothing to do 
with the priestly family of geonim from the following century, for 
members of this family were the main adversaries of Nathan b. Abraham. 
As we have seen, the earlier priestly family of geonim was related by 
marriage to the family of Meir Gaon, which may be a partial explanation 
for the stance of one of Meir Gaon’s offspring in the dispute to be described 
below. 143 

[871] The first knowledge we have of Nathan b. Abraham is from a 
letter of recommendation which Samuel the Third b. Hosha'na wrote on 
his behalf from Jerusalem to Shemaria b. Elhanan in Fustat. It states that 
Abraham b. Saul died and that his son Nathan is setting out on his way ‘to 
see that his inheritance is not lost’. Abraham, the father, evidently died in 
Egypt and not in Palestine, for it says there: ‘we have heard rumours that 
R. Abraham b. Saul has died’. Evidently the journey in search of his 
inheritance, undoubtedly in pursuit of people who were still indebted to 
the deceased, took Nathan to the Maghrib. This we learn from what 
Solomon b. Judah writes, that Nathan ‘went (when he was young) to the 
west to look for the inheritance of his father’. According to him, Nathan 
stayed there for ‘many years’ and studied Torah with ‘Hushiel ha-Rav’. 
Nathan must have left Palestine before 1011, for Shemaria b. Elhanan died 

143 See the fragments of the Bustanai story grouped together in Gil, Tarbiz, 48(1978/9), 65ff, 
and the colophon there (in ENA 4012), 69: ‘as he had transmitted from his forefathers, the 
holy heads of the yeshiva’; see there further references; on the use of the word yeshivot in 
the sense of ‘heads of the yeshiva’ see ibid., 70, n. 74; see also Goitein, Mediterranean 
Society, II, 595, n. 17, with a Muslim parallel. The name of his grandfather, Saul, see: 18, 
line 17. The son of b. Yohai Av’s sister: 127, line 8. 'The place of his maternal uncle’, ibid., 
Iinel5, The letter of Salama (Solomon) ha-Kohen: 525. The affair of Nathan b. Abraham 


692 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

in that year. Samuel b. Hosha'na signed the letter as ‘the third’, and we 
know that he was ‘the third’ from at least 1004; hence Nathan’s journey 
could have taken place even seven years before 1011, or perhaps more. If 
we take a mean time, for example 1007, and say that he was at that time 
fifteen years old, he would have been born in around 990-995, and during 
the dispute (1038-1042) he would have been in his mid-forties. 

We do not have any details regarding Nathan b. Abraham’s stay in the 
Maghrib, but it seems that he had a faction of friends there. This is implied 
in his letter, written in Fustat, to Mevorakh b. David, a Babylonian 
scholar who lived in Qayrawan. In this letter, he praises a certain Abraham 
the physician b. ‘Eli, and another man from Qayrawan, Hanania. As we 
shall see, when he left Qayrawn to go eastward to Egypt, he was given 
warm letters of recommendation by the Nagid of Qayrawan, Jacob b. 
‘Amram. 

From Nathan’s stay in Fustat, on his way to Palestine, we have a letter 
which he sent to a certain Abu Yusuf Eleazar b. Samuel (Isma‘11), to Qus in 
Upper Egypt. We recognise the fact that the letter was from Fustat by his 
mention of Hesed al-Tustari (Abu Nasr al-Dustari) there. One can see that 
during his stay in Fustat, in the thirties of the century, Nathan was perhaps 
engaged in trade for a stretch of a number of years, and one can assume that 
his connections with that merchant in Qus, which was a junction for 
goods en route to India, point to his participation in this trade. He devotes 
much of the letter to the affair of Abraham b. David ibn Sughmar, which I 
shall discuss further. In the second part of the letter, most of which is 
written in mirror-writing for fear of the evil eye (of his competitors, 
evidently), there are details about the price of various kinds of merchan¬ 
dise for the addressee’s information. It seems that Nathan dealt in supply¬ 
ing tar and gypsum, probably for building construction in Qus. There are 
also details there of the price of wheat, pepper, brazilwood, almonds, 
camphor, musk, copper, soap, nuqra dirhams (which were worth 22 
dirhams per dinar). 

We also find echoes of his journey from the Maghrib and his stay in 
Fustat in the letter which Nathan wrote Co Nethanel b. Rawh in Fustat. He 
addresses him as ‘our pupil’. Evidently the letter was written in the spring 
of 1038. He mentions the farewell-taking and notes that he had hoped that 
in Fustat he would earn some rest, after the ‘burden of trading and 
traversing the desert and sailing the seas’, that is, after his journey from the 
Maghrib. From the letter, it seems that he was reduced to poverty, and 
was left owing money to various people. His creditors treated him with 
extreme severity, which was not in accord with the laws ofthejews. Even 

was discussed by Mann, Texts , I, 323ff; as one can see, the discussion here differs in 

various details. 


693 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


his father-in-law seems to have been angry with him, owing to his 
failures, and did not permit his wife and son to accompany him from then 
on. A Christian is also mentioned, evidently a business partner of his 
father-in-law. The latter, Mevorakh b. ‘Eli, was to be one of his chief 
supporters during the dispute. The letter was evidently from Dumyat 
(Damietta), and he mentions that on Monday, he intends to set out for 
Hanes (which is Tinnls). He probably meant to sail to Palestine from 
there. In the interim, he is occupied with the affairs of the local com¬ 
munity, who received him in a friendly manner (probably because of his 
learning and lineage). He stays with his good friend Husayn b. ‘Allan and 
he asks his pupil, the addressee, to gather together the community, 
without fearing his father-in-law. 144 

[872] The quarrel in Jerusalem broke out half a year after Nathan 
reached Palestine. Solomon b. Judah relates in his letters, some of which 
were written during the dispute and others afterwards, how the dispute 
began. According to him, the people of the yeshiva received Nathan on his 
arrival in Jerusalem with considerable courtesy and respect: ‘we called him 
rosh le-Israel’. They assumed that the wisdom and learning which he 
acquired from Hushiel, his Master, would be reflected in his behaviour. 
However, he began to organise a faction in Ramla (‘. .. and began to make 
himself the more important and his fellow-men insignificant’). Rosh-Je- 
Israel, it appears from a number of places, meant that he was appointed 
av-bet-din in the yeshiva, as his uncle on his mother’s side had been. He was 
given this title because the previous av-bet-din had died, and thereafter 

144 The letter of Samuel ‘the third’: 18; in this letter, there is no hint that Nathan will go to the 
Maghrib, and it is implied that his destination is only Fustat: he was certainly very young 
then, for in the letter it says that he is ‘a tender innocent child, grown by us in purity and in 
exaltation of our Torah, and from day to day his learning increases'; he was then still a 
bachelor, although he has had matches proposed to him: ‘he has not tried what has been 
proposed to him’. The letter of Solomon b. Judah: 127. There is no firm basis to the 
assumption of Mann, Texts, I, 323, that the father died in Qayrawan. I do not understand 
how Abramson, Ba-merkazim, 32f, finds in Nathan’s journey to the Maghrib proof of the 
fact (correct in itself) that he stemmed from a family of geonim. As to Hushiel of 
Qayrawan, he is undoubtedly Hushiel b. Elhanan, father of Rabbenu Hananel, see the 
discussion on him in Poznanski, Harkavy Jubilee Volume, 192ff, and in Mann, Tarbiz, 
5(1933/4), 286ff; Hushiel’s great learning is confirmed by the words of Hayy Gaon in his 
letter: ‘we were told that there is in your place a man of great learning, a mountain of 
Torah, our Lord and Master Hushiel b. Elhanan’, etc.; see the complete version of the 
letter in Abramson, Ba-merkazim, 95ff. and the abovementioned passage in lines 36-37. 
On Mevorakh b. David: 178; see on this Mevorakh: Poznanski, ibid., 209; we do not 
know who Hanania of Qayrawan was. Hanania b. Berekhia in Poznanski, Harkavy Jubilee 
Volume, 1 87, is a misreading. In TS 8J a 2, f. 1, b, line 7, Nissim (not Hanania) b. Berekhia 
is mentioned. It seems that Mann, Texts, I, 329, was correct in writing that the letter 
evidently was written at the time Nathan was on his way back from the Maghrib to 
Palestine and stayed in Egypt, for in the address he is still called Nathan b. Abraham, 
without any title. The letter to Eleazar b. Isma'il: 76, where in line 11 the name of the 
Tustari is mentioned; on the mirror-writing, cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 218. 


694 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

forty of the elders met for the purpose of granting the title. There is no 
certainty as to the identity of the av-bet-din , who died when Nathan arrived 
in Jerusalem. Solomon b. Judah says: ‘the rumour has reached us about 
[the death] of the av, may God have mercy on him’, from which we learn 
that he died in some distant locality. According to what he says - that 
Nathan received the position of his uncle - one can assume that his 
mother’s brother, b. Yohai, about whom we know nothing, is intended. 
Perhaps what he meant to say was, the position that at some time in the 
past was held by Nathan’s uncle. Hence it is possible that the av-bet-din, 
who died before Nathan’s arrival, was someone else and not Nathan’s 
uncle. 

Tobiah b. Daniel, who was then ‘third’ in the yeshiva, relinquished the 
office of av-bet-din to which he was entitled according to the advancement 
usage of the yeshiva. When he was asked, he immediately agreed after he 
was told: ‘The place [you hold] is yours, stand in your place, and let the 
man who arrived be called av, and there will be peace among [the people 
of] Israel and quarrelling will stop. So he did as he was told’. Solomon b. 
Judah was not entirely pleased with this decision, thinking that those who 
had made it ‘destroy the netivot’-, that is, that they had violated the accepted 
advancement order of the yeshiva by giving the office of av-bet-din to 
Nathan and not to Tobiah b. Daniel. ‘And those who forbade me to call 
him, called him themselves’, that is, at first everyone objected to the 
appointment of Nathan by Solomon b. Judah to an office of such high rank 
in the yeshiva, but afterwards they appointed him despite his opposition. 
‘And I was then like a deaf person’, that is, he failed and blames himself for 
it. The Gaon saw Nathan as the source of the dispute: ‘the land was quiet 
from the day his maternal uncles passed away [from which we understand 
that he was speaking not only of b. Yohai]; from the moment he arrived, 
the quarrel started’. As to the ‘third’, Tobiah b. Daniel, we have seen that 
he was the son of Shemaiah Gaon’s sister. Apparently, we have here a sort 
of offensive of followers of the early priestly family, who ruled the 
Palestinian yeshiva for more than a generation before that, in support of a 
scion of this family and against the descendants of Shemaiah Gaon, Solo¬ 
mon b. Judah himself and Tobiah b. Daniel, as well as against the other 
priestly family of Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon b. Joseph. The family re¬ 
lationship was not the only motivation of this quarrel however. 145 

[873] As to the two priestly brothers, they were at first vigorously 
opposed to Nathan. This can be understood if we take into consideration 

The letter to Nethanelb. Rawh: 180; what Mann wrote in Jews, I, 147, that during his stay 

in Fustat Nathan had ‘a sort of school’ has no foundation. 

145 See theletters of Solomon b. Judah: 126, lines 44ff; 127, lines 7ff; 133, lines 8ff; 136, a, lines 

2-32; 137, b, lines lOff. 


695 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


the fact that we have here two priestly families who were continuously at 
odds with one another, evidently from the days of Shemaiah Gaon 
onwards. After the death of Solomon b. Judah, when the struggle for 
succession was at its height, Daniel b. Azariah writes disparagingly about 
his rival Joseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon. He notes that many people of 
Ramla (where Daniel then lived) are hostile to the two priestly brothers, 
while he himself had made every effort to pour oil on troubled waters. 
Joseph was not only ungrateful but began to slander him in every possible 
way. Here Daniel recalls forgotten incidents from the days of the dispute 
with Nathan b. Abraham and blames the two priestly brothers, Joseph and 
Elijah, for having been the main instigators of the dispute. On the other 
hand, he sees evidence ofjoseph ha-Kohen’s fickleness in the fact that he 
eventually came to terms with Nathan, after having promised that ‘he 
would go [against him] to the end of the world’. In his opinion (revealed 
rather late in the day), Nathan was the offended and not the offender, 
which everyone now knows (that is, in ca. 1051, nine years after the 
dispute), and he suggests that this was also the opinion of Solomon b. 
Judah. 

One of Nathan b. Abraham’s supporters, writing in the autumn of 1038 
and describing the eruption of the quarrel, also emphasises the part played 
by Joseph ha-Kohen, but also that of the Shuway‘ family. Solomon b. 
Judah, in fact, suggests in one of his letters that it is the priestly brothers 
who tried to prevent him from dealing with appointments, and thus make 
him incapable of appointing Nathan b. Abraham as av-bet-din. It seems 
that the matter of the appointments was a major issue in the dispute. We 
lack clear and precise details but the impression is that a large part of the 
bitterness that spread among the public and which supplied Nathan b. 
Abraham with supporters and followers, can be ascribed to the arbitrary 
fashion in which people were appointed to communal offices. As we shall 
see, one of Nathan b. Abraham’s obvious activities was the appointment 
of his supporters to such offices. Financial matters were also undoubtedly 
at the core of the dispute, particularly the struggle over the funds of the 
heqdesh. One explicit accusation against Solomon b. Judah was that he had 
sold property of the heqdesh, but it is not clear just what he had sold and for 
what purpose (we have seen above that he considered the expenses of 
restoring the synagogue as a legitimate use of the heqdesh funds). As 
against this, in a complaint brought before the caliph against Nathan b. 
Abraham’s supporters, Solomon b. Judah’s faction claimed that they 
‘destroyed the foundations’. In addition, his adversaries also claim that 
Solomon b. Judah is a Maghribi, from which it is to be understood that 
Nathan b. Abraham was a Palestinian: ‘It is unacceptable that a man from 


696 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

the people of the West should be appointed head and it is unacceptable that 
he who ascends to this seat is any but a man from the people of Palestine’. 
This claim the supporters of Solomon b. Judah ascribe to Nathan b. 
Abraham’s followers (in a letter to the Maghrib!). 

The followers of Nathan b. Abraham then decided to proclaim him 
Gaon instead of Solomon b. Judah. One can see that this matter was not to 
be taken lightly, and it is not surprising that it split thejewish communities 
in Jerusalem and Ramla, in Fustat and Qayrawan, and undoubtedly in 
many other places of which we have little knowledge. 146 

[874] A first-hand account of the dispute’s eruption can be found in a 
letter of one of Nathan b. Abraham’s followers, of which unfortunately 
only a fragment, the middle section, has been preserved. It contains a 
description of the events of Tishri AM 4799, October AD 1038. It appears 
that with the first signs of dissension and manifestation of rebellion, the 
son of the Gaon, Abraham, hastened to Damascus, and returned with a 
tawqV, an official order, confirming the status of Solomon b. Judah. The 
community gathered in the synagogue in Ramla, where the son of the 
Gaon pronounced a homily, in the presence of Joseph ha-Kohen b. Solo¬ 
mon Gaon, who was then ‘fifth’ of the yeshiva. From there, the entire 
community went up to Jerusalem headed by the two. It seems that they 
went up to the Mount of Olives, where they blew the shofars in the 
presence of Solomon b. Judah and Joseph ha-Kohen. Afterwards, they 
declared a ban on ‘all those who profaned the holydays of the Lord’, which 
was a new formula of excommunication never heard of before (presum¬ 
ably a new formula for the excommunication of the Karaites). The family 
of Shuway' (who were even earlier enemies of the Gaon, as we have seen) 
opposed this and voiced their claims against the Gaon. At this point, 
Solomon b. Judah’s supporters became violent, they struck the father of 
the Shuway 1 family and even gnawed one of his fingers to the bone. These 
incidents occurred on Hosha'na rabba (23 October 1038). On the morrow, 
the eighth day of the Feast of Tabernacles, the excommunication of the 
Karaites was proclaimed in the usual manner, that is, the ban was placed 
on those who mixed ‘vessels for meat with vessels for milk’. According to 
the writer, the public opposed this and hence the pilgrims (almost all of 
whom, it is implied, were on Nathan’s side) gathered at the house of the 
Shuway' family, and proclaimed Nathan b. Abraham Gaon, a record 
being written to this effect, and signed by all those present. Hence, the date 
on which Nathan b. Abraham was proclaimed Gaon was 24 October 
1038. Afterwards, on the sabbath after the Feast of Tabernacles (28 

146 The letter of Daniel b. Azariah: 363. The supporter of Nathan: 182. Solomon b. Judah’s 
letter: 136, lines 26-27. The property of the heqdesh: 182, line 16; 197, c, line 20. The 
Palestinian origin: 192, lines 15-16. 


697 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

October 1038), the pilgrims in Ramla congregated in the majlis (it is not 
clear whether they mean the reception hall or whether he had set up an 
office in his house) of‘our Master Nathan Gaon’ and, at the request of the 
assembly, Nathan pronounced a homily, and by doing so pleased all those 
present (’no one remained in the synagogues’). 

We read the parallel story from the other side in a letter from Solomon 
b. Judah to Solomon the physician b. ‘Eli, sent to Tripoli in Syria. 
According to the Gaon, he received a warning from his loyal supporters in 
Ramla (’the elders of Ramla... wrote to us’) that Nathan b. Abraham was 
planning to pronounce himself Gaon (‘he laid his hands on everything’) 
and therefore hurried to Ramla together with Elijah ‘the sixth’ (who is 
ha-Kohen, b. Solomon Gaon), intending to place Elijah in charge of the 
community of Ramla (‘to seat him in Ramla’). In the meantime, he writes, 
Nathan organised a large faction of supporters (’empty and irresponsible 
people, whom he bought with money and clothes and food and drink’). 
And this is how he describes the events of the sabbath bereshit (the first after 
the Feast of Tabernacles) in Ramla (above we have seen the version of the 
opposing side). In his words, Nathan gathered his supporters in the 
synagogue. When he saw that a skirmish was about to take place (‘each of 
them wanting to fight the other’), Solomon b. Judah left the synagogue in 
order to prevent the intervention of the authorities. Then Nathan pro¬ 
claimed himself head of the yeshiva to his supporters (‘the hired rose up . . . 
and he prayed on himself head of the td'eva’; abomination, instead of 
yeshiva). Solomon b. Judah and his followers moved over to the other 
synagogue (it is not clear which one) and there he excommunicated 
Nathan and his assistants: ‘the son of the third and his cousin, and Masllah 
his pupil, and the Shuway 1 family, and ‘Ammar the physician’. The Gaon 
asks that a similar ban be proclaimed in Tripoli as well, as he evidently 
requested from all the communities that were connected with the Pal¬ 
estinian yeshiva. 147 

147 The fragment of a letter: 182; ‘the fourth’ of the yeshiva was then Abraham b. Samuel b. 
Hosha‘na, see 230, line 26, and ‘the third’, Tobiah b. Daniel, as we have seen above; 
Elijah, Joseph’s brother, was ‘the sixth’. The writer speaks of ‘the Shu'a b. Simhun 
family’, and there is almost no doubt that he is referring to the Shuway 1 family. The 
passage concerning the holidays arouses second thoughts. Did Nathan b. Abraham have 
in mind making changes in the calendar in order to come closer to the Karaites? We have 
no proof of this, and perhaps this was part of the counter-defamation of Solomon b. 
Judah’s side, though it may have contained a grain of truth. The letter to Solomon the 
physician b. ‘Eli: 127. Tripoli is called here ‘the fortress of Sinim’. As noted by Mann, 
Texts, I, 337, n. 4, Saadia Gaon translates ‘and the Sinite’ (Gen., x:17): al-tarabulusiyitv, and 
see David Qimhi, to Is., xlix:12 (from the Land of Sinim): ‘Rav Saadia interpreted it: 
itrabulustym’ (this is the correct reading). It is surprising that Mann himself brought up the 
assumption that Aswan in Egypt was being referred to. Assaf, Tarbiz, 3(1931/3), 345, 
already objected to it, also quoting scholars of later generations, who say that ‘the Sinite’ 
is Tripoli in Syria; and it is worth seeing also Bereshit rabba xxxvii, the Theodor and 


698 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 


[875] The next item of information is dated four months later, when 
Nathan b. Abraham wrote to Abu’l-Barakat Berakha b. Rawh of Fustat. 
The letter was evidently sent with Berakha’s mother, who was perhaps at 
that time in Palestine. The letter is dated: after the night of the eve of 
Purim, AM 4799 (12 February AD 1039); and it contains a description of 
the reading of the megilla in Ramla. It was attended by more than 800 
people, 400 in the tnajlis and more than that in the qd'a. Rabbanites and 
Karaites took part together and, so did al-gdyTm, that is, Muslims. The 
illumination was very impressive: 30 ‘daylight’ candles, more than 200 
ordinary candles, some 30 lamps and chandeliers (and who can tell what 
was precisely the nature of these forms of lighting). The megilld was read 
from approximately 30 books and the reading was beautiful. No one 
remained in the Babylonian synagogue, in the Palestinian synagogue there 
were some 20 souls and with al-Fasi (that is, Solomon b. Judah, evidently 
in his home) less than ten. Nathan b. Abraham emphasises in particular 
that the Karaites were also present at his synagogue, perhaps 200 of them, 
including all their notables. He describes the gay ambiance and adds that 
such a Purim had not been seen since the days of (Manasseh b. Abraham) 
Ibn al-Qazzaz. 

Apparently, not long after that, towards Passover, Nathan tried to 
establish contact with Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn Furat, the physician 
with considerable influence with the authorities in Ramla. From a brief 
letter he sent to him, it emerges that he had already sent him an emissary, 
who had not succeeded in finding him, and thus Nathan was unable to 
carry out his intention to come to him to offer his salutations for the 
holidays. It is possible that this failure to establish connections with 
Abraham ha-Kohen was not accidental, considering that the latter was one 
of Solomon b. Judah’s most loyal supporters. 

Later on, we find a letter from Tammuz 1350 Sel., June or July AD 
1039, with the heading ‘Nathan head of the yeshiva Ge’on Ya'aqov’. 
This was a letter written by Nathan to ‘Amram b. Yefet in Fustat. The 
latter had gone over to Nathan’s camp, as Nathan had been informed 
by Mevorakh ‘head of the communities’, evidently Mevorakh b. ‘Eli, 

Albeck ed., 348: (the Sinite) Artusiyya; see also in the Targums: Artisa’e (Neofiti) and 
various other distorted versions. This is Orthosia, some 15 kilometres north-east of 
Tripoli. See also: Hippolytos, Khrottikon, 72, who interprets ‘the Sinite’ - Orthosiastai; 
see the entry Orthosia (by E. Honigmann) in PW, vol. 36, 1494ff.; cf. Gildemeister, 
ZDPV , 8(1885), 135, line 29: artusiya; the manuscript ibid, has armusiya, which is 
certainly a distortion; this was a citadel, and considered the citadel of Tripoli; the old 
Tripoli was abandoned and the inhabitants set up a city called Tarabulus, four miles from 
the sea; see Idris! (Cerulli), 372f; see Canard, Hamdanides, 208: Arethusa is al-Rastan, 
south of the Orontes; see further: Wild, Libanesische Ortsnamen, 343, and further refer¬ 
ences there (he does not mention the Jewish references). The subject of Nathan b. 
Abrahams’s supporters will be discussed below. 


699 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

Nathan’s father-in-law. The letter merely contains greetings and praise in 
very ornate language. In that same month, Tammuz 1350 Sel., Nathan 
wrote another eloquent letter (he probably wrote many letters of this kind, 
to many communities), to Nethanel b. Rawh, also of Fustat. He calls him 
‘the holy scion, descendant of holy ones . .. who sanctifies the name of 
God [i.e. is endangering his own life] and is undergoing any risk for the 
study of the Torah’. We are not aware of the reason for all these phrases. 
He even grants him the title: ‘aid of the yeshiva’. (We have seen above that 
Nathan saw this Nethanel as his own pupil and wrote to him when he was 
en route to Palestine, evidently in the spring of 1038.) 148 

[876] In the summer of 1039, the Jewish world around the Mediter¬ 
ranean was in a ferment. The first evidence, explicit and aroused, concern¬ 
ing the involvement of Fustat and Qayrawan in the dispute, can be found 
in two drafts of letters intended to be sent from Fustat to the Nagid of 
Qayrawan, Jacob b. ‘Amram — one in Hebrew, written by Abraham b. 
David ibn Sughmar and the other in Arabic, written by Ghalib ha-Kohen 
b. Moses, son-in-law of Ephraim b. Shemaria. In the first letter, there is a 
complaint that it was the people from the Maghrib who were behind 
Nathan b. Abraham and who encouraged him at the outset of his activi¬ 
ties. The Nagid is asked to intervene and write to Nathan to mend his 
aberrant ways and try to persuade the authorities to intervene and put a 
stop to the dispute. The people of Fustat, the letter states, suffer im¬ 
mensely from the activities of Nathan’s relatives and supporters there. In 
the other letter as well, the subject of the pressure in Fustat is spoken of and 
in a careful and polite style, the people of the Maghrib are blamed for 
backing Nathan’s actions. In order to make a greater impression on the 
Nagid, they quote Nathan b. Abraham’s claim, that it is not conceivable 
that a Maghribi (Solomon b. Judah came from Fas, as we have seen), 
should stand at the head of the yeshiva of Palestine. There is a repetition of 
the request that the Nagid intervene to put an end to the dispute, mainly by 
appealing to the authorities in Fustat, to whom he evidently had special 
access. 

Thus the mood became increasingly overwrought, especially with the 

148 The letter to Berakha b. Rawh: 183 ; majlis and qd‘a were large halls characteristic of that 
time, and it seems that the writer is referring to a private house, as was the opinion of 
Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 591, n. 39; it is interesting that Nathan mentions four 
public centres; naturally this could not have happened in Jerusalem, for we do not know 
of a ‘Babylonian’ synagogue there. The letter to Abraham ha-Kohen: 185 . To ‘Amram b. 
Yefet; 188 ; a year earlier, 1 August 1038, ‘Amram b. Yefet was among the signatories to a 
record, 331 , in favour of Eleazar ha-melammed b. Samuel, who was accused of cursing 
Solomon b. Judah; Mann, Jews, I, 146 commented on Nathan’s custom of writing his 
name and his title at the head of his letters, as Josiah Gaon and Elhanan b. Shemaria were 
also wont to do. To Nethanel b. Rawh: 186 ; this Nethanel is a signatory to a Karaite 
marriage deed, see 309 , line 7; in a letter he wrote to Ephraim b. Shemaria in Fustat, 


700 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 


month of Tishri and the time of pilgrimage approaching. In the wake of 
the pilgrimage to Jerusalem, an unusual atmosphere of expectation pre¬ 
vailed among the Jewish communities. It was clear that the congregation 
on the Mount of Olives would turn into a demonstration of the power of 
each of the two camps and that it would be possible to correctly gauge 
whose force was the stronger of the two. It is therefore not surprising that 
Nathan b. Abraham was anxious to recruit his followers in view of the 
imminent pilgrimage, as can be seen in his explicit letter to a certain ‘yedid 
[friend] of the yeshiva’, whose identity and location is not known to us. 
This letter contains a request to recruit as many supporters for the pilgrim¬ 
age as possible, as I have already mentioned. We shall see that we have 
some indications that the pilgrimage and the congregation on Hosha'na 
rabba on the Mount of Olives was a success (however passing) for Nathan 
b. Abraham. In this letter, there are also further echoes of the flaring of 
passions. The letters of‘the friend’ did not reach him, writes Nathan, and 
he suspects that Solomon b. Judah’s supporters (‘a congregation of hypo¬ 
crites’, Job, xv:34) obtain them by deception. Nathan b. Abraham ap¬ 
pointed people to hold community offices and distributed titles to his 
followers. For instance, Mevasser b. Jesse is mentioned as ‘head of the 
communities’ and he is also called ‘faithful of the yeshiva’. This Mevasser 
visited Ramla and received writings from Nathan for his followers. 
Nathan also appointed Abraham b. Shelah haver, and he explains in detail 
how important it is that there should be ‘an ordained man’ in every 
community, meaning of course, someone loyal to Nathan. According to 
his statements, he enjoyed notable success in Ramla. The authorities were 
pressed lest they agreed to the demands of Solomon b. Judah’s backers: 
they even warned the local ruler that they would approach the mishne, that 
is, the wazlr. The ‘sixth’ (it is not clear who this was at that time) went over 
to Nathan’s side, and even banned one ofhis rivals. It seems, then, that an 
optimistic mood prevailed in Nathan b. Abraham’s camp in the summer 
and autumn of 1039 and that he had the upper hand in Ramla. We have no 
information about the recruiting of supporters for Solomon b. Judah in 
anticipation of the month of Tishri and the pilgrimage, but it seems that in 
his camp, too, there were considerable preparations for the impending 
events. 

We find indications of what was happening in Ramla in the fragment 
of a letter evidently sent from Fustat to Jerusalem mentioning figures 
involved in the dispute who belonged to the faction of Abu Sahl, that is 
Joseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon intended to propose that Nethanel become trustee to 
the heirs of a certain Surur ha-Levi, but he erased his name and wrote that of Nlhuma b. 
Samuel instead, see: 407, line 8; this erasure may have been connected with the struggle 
between the factions in the yeshiva which preceded the dispute described here, and in 
which we find Nethanel in the opposite camp to that of Joseph ha-Kohen. 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


Nathan b. Abraham. Somewhat more extensive information, though also 
very obscure, is to be found in a letter from Abraham b. David ibn 
Sughmar, who wrote from Fustat to ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel in Jerusa¬ 
lem. One can see that these two were followers of Solomon b. Judah. The 
writer mentions a long letter from b. Meir (evidently Solomon he-haver 
b. Meir rosh ha-seder, who was also one of Solomon b. Judah’s supporters 
at first, and I have already mentioned him above). From this letter, which 
was sent to Nathan b. Abraham (he calls him al-zdnav, ‘the tail’, for 
Nathan calls himself ‘the head’), copies were made and distributed to 
every country in the east and the west, says Ibn Sughmar; he anticipates 
that ‘Eli ha-Kohen will also copy it and show it to all his friends. He 
assumes that the copy he sent to ‘Eli went astray and regrets the fact. 
Indirectly, we learn that a letter arrived in Fustat from ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. 
Ezekiel with details of the incidents of the dispute in Ramla, and that also, 
ashabna (our people, that is the Maghribi merchants) already wrote about it 
from Ramla to Fustat. From Nathan b. Abraham there are also letters and 
copies of letters arriving in Jaffa and Tyre, and according to the writer, 
they are full of lies. Nathan lies to his followers and they in turn, lie to him 
- apparently about the extent of the support he enjoys. According to Ibn 
Sughmar, similar things occurred in Fustat. Working there for Nathan’s 
side is a certain ‘Allun, who even proclaimed an excommunication in the 
synagogue (apparently against the supporters of Solomon b. Judah). The 
backers of Nathan b. Abraham ‘the sons of the Kohen’ (we do not know 
who they are), and b. al-Sipporl (Judah ibn al-‘Usfura?) are active against 
the followers of Solomon b. Judah in Fustat - they bribe people with 
money and offer them wine ( nabldh ), and use for this purpose the money 
set aside for ‘the cave’, that is, the synagogue in Jerusalem. This refers to a 
sum of400 dinars collected by that b. al-Sippoff for ‘the cave’, and now it 
was being spent on the dispute. Ibn Sughmar wrote about this to ha-rosh 
av-bet-dm (perhaps he means Nathan b. Abraham, although he was aware 
that no good would come of it, but we do not know of anyone being 
appointed to the office of av-bet-din during the course of the dispute). He 
received a long letter from him in response, and even was given the title 
‘banner of the Rabbanites’, but Ibn Sughmar would have preferred it if he 
had gone down to Ramla instead and resolved the dispute there. 149 

149 The letters to the Nagid of Qayrawan: 191 , 192 . The letter to the ‘friend of the yeshiva’; 
187 ; the ‘sixth’ mentioned there is according to Mann, Jews , 149, Elijah ha-Kohen b. 
Solomon, also in: Texts , I, 330, but this is impossible, for we have seen the extent of the 
rivalry between Nathan and the priestly brothers. Mann himself (Jews, ibid., in the MS) 
noted that this should be corrected. The fragment from Fustat: 189 . The letter of Ibn 
Sughmar: 190 ; Moses b. Jekuthiel, physician and merchant of Fustat, originating from 
Spain, who requests validation of a deed from the Jerusalem yeshiva, at the time he came 
there from his stay in Tyre, mentions in his letter personalities of the yeshiva: the Gaon, 


JO 2 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

[877] Evidence of the situation in Ramla is found in a letter from 
Abraham ‘the fourth’ b. Samuel ‘the third’ b. Hosha'na, written from 
Ramla to Solomon b. Judah in Jerusalem after Passover, apparently in AM 
4799, that is AD 1039. In his words ‘most of the authorities in the city 
support our enemy; he deludes the people with his lies, like Absalom son 
of Maachah’. 

In Fustat, the friction between the two camps, and the clashes which 
undoubtedly accompanied it, led to the closing of the synagogue of the 
‘Palestinians’. It is possible that the immediate reason for the closing of the 
synagogue was the fact that the majority of the congregation were loyal to 
Solomon b. Judah, and as we shall see, the aggressive individuals among 
Nathan b. Abraham’s supporters put pressure on the authorities and 
convinced them to close the synagogue. We learn from a heqdesh account 
written in Fustat in 1041, that the synagogue was closed towards the end of 
Marheshwan 1351 Sel., that is, approximately mid-November AD 1039. 
Solomon b. Judah mentions the closing of the synagogue in Fustat in a 
number of letters written during the dispute, and in other letters written 
when it was over. It seems that the synagogue remained closed almost to 
the end of the dispute, or perhaps even until the very end, that is, almost 
three whole years. In research works written on the dispute, there is some 
confusion between the synagogue in Fustat and that of Ramla. The latter 
was only closed for a few days, on Purim AM 4801, that is February AD 
1041. 

We gather further details of what happened in the autumn of 1039 from 
a draft written in Arabic script on the margin of a court record in the 
handwriting of Ephraim b. Shemaria. The draft was intended to form a 
petition to the caliph, and one can assume that it was written by Ephraim 
b. Shemaria himself, or by one of his assistants. According to this draft, 
the dispute was a result of the deterioration in the status of the Jewish 
leadership during the past two years (that is, from about the beginning of 
1038). Leading the offenders was a man who came from the west, Nathan 
b. Abraham, who attempted to oust Solomon b. Judah from his office. It 
was he who obtained the closing of the synagogue of the ‘Palestinians’ in 
Fustat, two months before the writing of this letter. Nathan b. Abraham is 
now in Fustat for a month, organising his supporters, with the backing of 
his many influential relatives and the Karaites. It emerges that in Decem¬ 
ber 1039, Nathan b. Abraham was staying in Fustat, and he was still there 
in Adar I Sel. 1351, that is February-March AD 1040, as is proven by a 
deed drawn up in his court that met in Fustat. 

‘the third’ Tobiah b. Daniel, and others; but not the av-bet-din, Nathan b. Abraham. The 
reason for this is clear - it was the dispute - but from this we also learn that no one else was 
appointed in Nathan’s stead, see 243. 


7»3 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


We have no precise or dated details on the events of the year 1040 and the 
beginning of 1041. We find interesting material in a letter from Joseph b. 
Kulayb (a diminutive from Biblical Kalev, which is a transformation of 
Khalaf, which is Halfon, which is usually Aaron), a follower and intimate 
of Nathan b. Abraham, who writes from Ramla to his Master on 8 May 
1041. He notes that the synagogue (of the ‘Palestinians’) was closed on 
Purim (20 February) for a few days. A meeting of the two factions was 
held and there were negotiations concerning the appointment of a certain 
b. ‘Eli to some office (cantor?). At that gathering, it was decided to call a 
meeting of the entire community regarding Judah the cantor, who was 
loathed by the followers of Nathan b. Abraham (he was probably Judah 
‘the western cantor’ b. Abraham b. Faraj). It was decided that Judah 
himself should go to Nathan (who was then somewhere outside of Pal¬ 
estine, apparently Tyre) in order to clarify his situation. From this it 
emerges that Nathan’s followers dominated Ramla; they were the ma¬ 
jority and decided on the management of communal affairs. They were 
also able to dismiss a cantor who evidently was not an ardent supporter of 
Nathan. Their own man, b. ‘Eli, waited to be appointed in his stead, and 
although he had been waiting since Purim (February 20, that is, for two 
months), he was persuaded to be patient until the matter of Judah was 
finally decided. From this letter, we also have information concerning the 
opposing side, the people of Solomon b. Judah. They apparently aban¬ 
doned the synagogue, at least in part, and rented a house for themselves. 
Abraham, son of the Gaon, was in Ramla at the time but was on the verge 
of leaving after his unsuccessful attempt to persuade people to go over to 
his father’s camp. Nathan continued to appoint haverfm from among his 
supporters and distribute honorary titles. This is illustrated in the episode 
of the son of the haver from Baniyas who arrived in Ramla, claiming that 
he was one of Nathan’s supporters and asking to be recognised as a haver or 
as a rosh seder, however the community refused to accept his status until he 
could produce a written confirmation from Nathan. At the time, Nathan 
behaved in the traditional manner of geonim and was busy writing re- 
sponsa to queries on matters of the law, and even during his absence from 
Ramla, such queries were sent to Tyre and their responsa were 
anticipated. 150 

[878] To a large extent, the letters of Solomon b. Judah reflect the 
emotional pressure under which he laboured as a result of the success of his 

150 The letter of Abraham ‘the fourth’ b. Samuel ‘the third’ (identified by his handwriting): 
230; he writes to ‘rabbenu Gaon’ about the division of an inheritance between Moses, 
Mawhub (Nathan) and Isaac the sons of Mevasser, a matter dealt with by Solomon b. 
Judah in 125, his letter to David b. Aaron, Fustat; even from the comparison of the 
adversary with Absalom, it is obvious that Abraham writes to Solomon b. Judah and that 
he is one of those who oppose Nathan. Mann, Texts, I, 325, n. 2, assumed that the ‘son of 


704 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 


rival and the widespread support which the latter enjoyed in Palestine as 
well as in the communities outside of Palestine, if we can judge by what 
occurred in Fustat. He calls Nathan b. Abraham all sorts of disparaging 
names, such as ‘head of Peor’, and so on. He calls down curses on his head, 
such as ‘evil shall not depart from his house (Prov., xvii:13), to make him 
pay’, or ‘to deprive him of anyone that pisseth against the wall’, and 
others. Nathan is over-ambitious, arrogant, and behaves like his deceased 
uncle, his mother’s brother, recruiting supporters from among those who 
were formerly his rivals, distributing numerous writings full of lies and 
being helped by the Karaites (‘the other sect’). He has a great deal of money 
and is assisted by the authorities. His influence has reached as far as the 
Maghrib, ‘for his hand was stretched out towards them’. The Gaon 
emphasises that he is himself an old man: ‘and I am at the end of my days 
and do not know how long I shall live’. In a letter written after the dispute, 
on 29 November 1042, he points out that it is already three years that he 
has been ill, and if we assume that he was being accurate, the onset of his 
illness (the nature of which is not known — he lived for another nine years) 
began in the autumn of 1039, when Nathan b. Abraham began to domi¬ 
nate Fustat and evidently succeeded in recruiting a large number of pil¬ 
grims to go up to Jerusalem. These facts were especially disturbing to 
Solomon b. Judah, and he even points out the exact date: ‘from the 
morrow after Hosha'na rabba or the eighth day of the Feast of Tabernacles’. 
We can assume then that the gathering on the Mount of Olives on 
Hosha'na rabba AM 4800 (12 October AD 1039) turned into a successful 
demonstration of support and victory for Nathan b. Abraham. 151 

the third’ mentioned as one of Nathan b. Abraham’s supporters was this Abraham, son of 
Samuel ‘the third’, but this opinion is invalid in the light of this letter: 230 . The closing of 
the synagogue: Document No. 12 (Bodl MS Heb b 11, f. 5) in Gil, Documents, 175f, see 
lines 31-32; despite its closure, it appears from that account of heqdesh expenses, they 
continued to light the oil lamps there. Solomon b. Judah on the closing of the synagogue 
in Fustat: 131 , b, lines 5-6 (assumed reading); 130 , lines 21 ff: ‘in order that one listens to 
what he says ... that a house of prayer should be closed . . . and to reduce a congregation 
to a wilderness’; 133 , line 8 (happy at the reopening of the synagogue); 135 , lines 19-20: 
much of his anxiety during the dispute was that people would say that he was the cause of 
the synagogue being closed. The draft of the petition to the caliph: 196 . The deed in 
Nathan b. Abraham’s court: 193 . Joseph b. Kulayb’s letter 195 , see the matter of the date 
in the notes to this document; b. ‘Eli is perhaps Mevorakh b. ‘Allun b. Moses, signed on 
the ‘peace agreement’: 199 , b, line 5. The closing of the synagogue in Ramla on Purim was 
evidently the result of a scandal which broke out on the question of Judah the cantor’s 
dismissal, and according to Goitein, Eretz-Israel, 10 (1970/71), 106f, there was the 
problem of mentioning the rashiit, that is, mentioning the name of the Gaon during public 
prayer. Stern, RE], 128 (1069), 204, and following him Cohen, AJSR, 1(1976), 7, n. 18, 
assumed that this information concerning the extended closure of the synagogue applied 
to Ramla, but this is not so; it is the synagogue of the ‘Palestinians’ in Fustat; and the 
discussion in Cohen, ibid., on the date of the closure of the synagogue is irrelevant in the 
light of the clear date as we know it, mid-November 1039. 

151 The complaints of Solomon b. Judah, see: 126 and also 128 : ‘who lurks like a beast’, etc. 

705 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


[879] In order to thoroughly understand the procession of events in the 
course of the dispute, which I have surveyed in the main, we should direct 
our attention to the forces and factors which helped each side. They may 
be divided into two categories, Jews and non-Jews, the latter being the 
authorities. Most of Nathan b. Abraham’s supporters remain an anony¬ 
mous element, although some of them are mentioned by name in my 
collection of Geniza documents, only in connection with the dispute. 
There are possibly two reasons for this: one is that obviously those who 
were active on Nathan b. Abraham’s side were new to public affairs, and 
their thirst for novelty (for we have no precise information as to their 
characters), led them to pursue these activities. The other reason was that, 
working in his favour, as we shall see, were people outside the framework 
of the ‘Palestinian’ communities, that is, people of the ‘Babylonian’ and 
even the Karaite communities. Again, these people are naturally unknown 
to us, for most of the documents which reached the Geniza were from the 
‘Palestinian’ congregation in Fustat. 

As we have seen, Solomon b. Judah counted among the first supporters 
of his rival, the son of ‘the third’ (whose identity we do not know); 
Masliah, ‘his pupil’ (it is not clear whose pupil); his cousin (as afore¬ 
mentioned); ‘Ammar the physician; and the Shuway‘ family. We are 
familiar with the latter and I have already surveyed the available infor¬ 
mation on them, and we have seen that they were evidently identical with 
the family of Shu‘a b. Simhun, who were keen followers of Nathan when 
the dispute erupted. Abu’l-Hasan ‘Ammar the physician is mentioned in a 
number of documents, not only in connection with the dispute, but we 
have no further details about him. 

What is most impressive is the mass support described in Nathan’s 
letters. Although we have seen that his opponents accused him of dis¬ 
tributing lies about the extent of that support, the general impression is 
that they were not correct and that Nathan b. Abraham’s spontaneous and 
enthusiastic description of the reading of the megilld, for instance, was 
certainly true in the main. He had heard from Damascus, he says in that 
letter, that 400 people there have already signed a court record ( mahdar) 
recognising his authority. Apparently, Nathan b. Abraham had sway over 
the masses due to his lineage and his reputation as a scholar, but he also 
seems to have been knowledgeable and experienced in public relations and 
in nurturing friendships. A letter he wrote to a certain Halfon, who left the 
city (Fustat), can serve as an example. Nathan expresses his regrets that he 
did not manage to take leave of him properly because he was too ill to be 

and the matter of the Maghrib there; 130 , with his thoughts on the approaching end of his 

life, and remarks about the large sums of money at Nathan b. Abraham’s disposal and on 

the fact that he bribes his supporters with money (lines 21fl). His illness; 133 . 


706 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 


able to walk or even to ride to see him. From the letter, it emerges that 
Halfon was one of his financial backers. Perhaps the reference here is to 
this Halfon (his Hebrew name was Aaron) b. Ephraim b. Tarasun, a 
veteran and central public figure in Fustat. Also, we already know of a 
number of people of Fustat with whom Nathan had friendly relations and 
was in the habit of writing to: Nethanel ha-Levi b. Rawh and Berakha b. 
Rawh (perhaps the brother of the former), both evidently Karaites; Abu’l- 
SururPerahia (Farah) rosh ha-pereq b. Mu’ammalb. Perahia the judge, who 
may also have been a Karaite, for he had a special relationship with Tobiah 
b. Moses, one of the Karaite leaders; ‘Amram b. Yefet, to whom Nathan 
b. Abraham wrote in Tammuz 1350 Sel., July AD 1038; Solomon b. 
Nathan, to whom there is a fragment of the opening of a letter from 
Nathan b. Abraham in my collection, and who may have been identical 
with Solomon b. Nethanel, the money changer, whose letter to the 
av-bet-dln Zadok ha-Levi b. Levi has been preserved. 

To this subject of Nathan b. Abraham’s supporters in Fustat, we must 
also add the deed dated Adar I 1351 Sel., February-March AD 1040, 
already mentioned above. The deed was drawn up in Fustat, before ‘the 
Grand Court of our Master Nathan head of the yeshiva Ge’on Ya'aqov’. It 
deals with a quarrel between indigo traders. This court met at the home of 
Nethanel he-haver b. Yeshu'a. Nethanel apparently received the title haver 
from Nathan b. Abraham, for he is not mentioned anywhere else as 
having this title. Another signatory to the deed was Eleazar b. Samuel, 
that is, Eleazar b. Isma‘11, who was involved some year and a half earlier in 
a scandal and was accused of cursing Solomon b. Judah, as we have seen. 
He was the man who had conducted business with Nathan b. Abraham 
from Qus in southern Egypt, when the latter was in Fustat, before coming 
to Palestine. Strangely, the handwriting on the deed resembles that of 
Ghalib ha-Kohen b. Moses, Ephraim b. Shemaria’s son-in-law, and these 
two were the most loyal supporters of Solomon b. Judah. 

A letter from an anonymous supporter of Nathan b. Abraham arouses 
particular interest, and it is difficult, to discern whether it was written 
shortly before the dispute or after it ended. He praises Nathan in the letter, 
for according to the writer, he acquired a reputation for piety, learning, 
and knowledge of people and also because of his distinguished lineage 
(jaldlat al-bayta). His devotion to Nathan b. Abraham can be seen from the 
fact that he concludes his letter with the latter’s ‘alama, yesha‘ yeqdrev. We 
learn of other followers of Nathan b. Abraham in Jerusalem from this 
letter: the Shu‘a family (which is the Shuway 1 family), Abu’l-Surur Joshua 
(Yusha 1 ) b. Nathan al-Andalusi, one of the Maghribis who lived injerusa- 
lem and who is mentioned in their letters. On the Shu‘a family and the 
aforementioned Joshua he says that they support him (the writer), from 


707 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


which we understand that they share his attitude towards Nathan b. 
Abraham. Their support is especially meaningful, he writes, for Solomon 
b. Judah’s people are persecuting him and they demand that he swears not 
to pray for Nathan b. Abraham, from which we understand that the man 
was a cantor, and that he was referring to the mention of the rashut of 
Nathan b. Abraham during public prayers. He went to visit Solomon b. 
Judah to resolve the differences, but the visit, which he describes in the 
letter, did not help him at all, and he has some hard things to say about the 
Gaon. It is interesting to note that despite all this, the writer still thinks he 
merits the appointment of dayydn or haver. 

One of the most distinguished of Nathan b. Abraham’s supporters was 
his father-in-law, Abu’l-Fadl Mevorakh (ha-Kohen?) b. ‘Eli b. Ezra 
(Zur‘a). He was one of the wealthy men of Fustat and belonged to the 
‘Babylonian’ community. Solomon b. Judah mentions him in two of his 
letters to Sahlan b. Abraham, leader of the ‘Babylonian’ community in 
Fustat: ‘Mevorakh ha-sdr [‘the prince’] b. ‘Eli; ha-sdr, our Master Mev¬ 
orakh b. ‘Eli ha-sdr b. Ezra’. It was he who pressed for the appointment of 
his son-in-law Nathan b. Abraham as av-bet-din, as we have seen. The title 
‘head of the communities’ was evidently granted him by his son-in-law. In 
a receipt drawn up in Fustat on a Monday, 26 Iyar 1381 Sel., 10 May AD 
1070, it states that Sedaqa (Zadok) b. Mevorakh rdsh ha-qahal (b. ‘Eli) 
collected money for his sister’s son, Abraham b. Nathan (b. Abraham), 
that was owed to him by a certain Hillel b. Manasseh. Hence we have clear 
evidence of the family connection. 

In the month of Av AM 4800, July AD 1040, the exilarch Hezekiah b. 
David wrote to the ‘Babylonian’ community in Fustat. This was at the 
height of the dispute, but there is no direct reference to it in the letter. He 
asks the entire community to accept the authority of Sahlan b. Abraham, 
‘for his words are our words and he is not to be disobeyed’, and threatens 
the excommunication of those that oppose him. The letter also contains 
special greetings for Abu Nasr, who is Hesed al-Tustari. In the first part of 
the letter, he speaks in praise of someone’s virtues. This part of the letter 
has been preserved only in shreds and it is difficult to make out the name of 
the man to whom he is referring, although it is not unlikely that it is 
Nathan b. Abraham. The latter notes, we have seen, that on the first 
Purim of the dispute, all the ‘Babylonians’ in Ramla came to participate 
with him in the reading of the megilla (according to him, no one remained 
in the synagogue of the ‘Babylonians’). Apparently, Sahlan b. Abraham, 
leader of the Babylonians in Fustat, was also on Nathan’s side. This can be 
discerned from the colophon of the story of Bustanai, mentioned earlier. 
The story was copied by Sahlan himself, whose handwriting could hardly 
be mistaken. He notes there that it is the work of ‘our Lord and Master 


708 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 


Nathan Gaon, as he received it from his forefathers the holy [heads of the] 
yeshivot and from his teacher Hushiel, resh be rabbanan [head of the 
learning house of scholars], of blessed memory, copied in Fustat in the 
year 1352 Sel.’ This means, that in AD 1041, when the dispute was still 
raging, Sahlan distributed a lampoon written by Nathan against the 
exilarchs of the Bustanai house. This was undoubtedly one of the results of 
Nathan’s stay in Fustat for a few months during the previous year. 
Naturally, it may be argued that by doing so, Sahlan was trying to 
besmirch Nathan’s reputation among the ‘Babylonians’ and other devo¬ 
tees of the exilarchic family; that is to say, it could have been interpreted as 
an act in favour of Solomon b. Judah. Or perhaps Nathan had written this 
story quite some time before the dispute and probably regretted it when 
trying to get the support of the ‘Babylonians’ and the Karaites. The truth is 
that we have no explanation for this action and can arrive at a number of 
assumptions, such as that the story was directed against Daniel b. Azariah, 
who also stemmed from the family of the exilarchs, that is the descendants 
of Bustanai. Daniel was staying in Fustat at the time and was one of 
Solomon b. Judah’s supporters. On the face of it, it seems possible to 
assume that Sahlan was indeed one of Nathan b. Abraham’s supporters, 
since he took the trouble to copy the story, while calling Nathan Gaon, 
and the latter’s forefathers: heads of the yeshivot. 152 

152 ‘Ammar the physician: see: 127; Chapira, Yerushalayim , 1952/3, 119, states-though I do 
not know on what basis — that he was a Karaite. The Megilld, and the support in 
Damascus: 183; the letter itself is from Ramla, not from Damascus. The letter to Halfon: 
179; possibly from the time of Nathan b. Abraham’s stay in Fustat in December 1039; I 
have already discussed Aaron b. Ephraim b. Tarasun above. 183a, is a fragment of a letter 
to Abu’l-Barakat b. Rawh; it seems that the letter contained details on the dispute; 
someone is compared to a zdqen matnre (‘a rebellious elder’, who disregards the decision of 
the Sanhedrin), perhaps referring to Solomon b. Judah; in line 14, one can read: al- 
mahldqet (the dispute); the writer notes that he visited ‘the graves of the eternal fathers’, 
that is, Hebron. Farahb. Mu’ammal signs a letter of complaint (toJosiahGaon), 44, about 
Mubaraka who applied to a Muslim court; Zadok ha-Levi b. Levi, av-bet-din of the 
Palestinian yeshiva, calls him in his letter, 210: Perahia ha-rosh (1029); he is a signatory to a 
deed from the year AM 1329, or AD 1018, in Fustat: TS 28.3. The letter to ‘Amram b. 
Yefet: 188. To Solomon b. Nathan: 194, and see the letter of Solomon b. Nethanel: 215. 
The deed in Nathan’s court: 193. The anonymous letter: 198. Mevorakh b. ‘Eli in the 
letter to Sahlan: 90, line 16; 136, lines 11-12; ‘head of the communities’: 188, line 15. The 
receipt: Antonin 349 (Prof. Goitein was kind enough to send me a photograph of a copy of 
the deed made when he was in Leningrad); cf. Goitein, Tarbiz , 36(1966/7), 62, n. 16. In 
1%, line 6, there is explicit mention of ashar lahu min al-'iraqiyin , that is, relatives on his 
wife’s side, from among the ‘Babylonians’, who helped Nathan b. Abraham; also in 192, 
the letter to the Nagid of Qayrawan, Jacob b. ‘Amram, relatives of the family are 
mentioned (line 6), Nathan b. Abraham’s father-in-law and brothers-in-law (lines 48- 
49), who support him and approach the authorities on his behalf; cf. Mann, Texts , I, 326, 
n. 4, mentioning a marriage deed from the Bodleian collection, in which there is the 
signature of Mevorakh b. ‘Eli b. Ezra (Zur‘a) ha-Kohen. The letter of Hezekiah b. David: 
TS Loan 40. The ‘Babylonians’ in Ramla: 183, line 21. The colophon, see the text (ENA 
4012) in Gil, Tarbiz, 48 (1978/9), 69, and the translation ibid., 73; cf. Mann, Texts I, 

709 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


[880] The Karaites were unmistakable supporters of Nathan b. Abra¬ 
ham; this was especially true of the Tustari family (who probably repre¬ 
sented a sect of their own called by this name among the Karaites). The 
Karaites took part en masse in that aforementioned reading of the megilla in 
Ramla. In the anonymous draft of an appeal to the caliph, which I have also 
mentioned, it was stated explicitly that they were supporters of Nathan. 
Solomon b. Judah also wrote explicitly of‘people of the other sect’ who 
side with his rival; ‘many of them assist him secretly, while pretending 
that they are with me’. And we have seen that some of those with whom 
Nathan carried on a correspondence were evidently Karaites. As to the 
Tustaris, to whom Solomon b. Judah would appeal for support for the 
Jewish population in Jerusalem and the yeshiva in its struggles, he hoped 
that they would stand by him on this occasion as well. From what he 
wrote to Ephraim b. Shemaria, it appears that he indeed expected Hesed 
al-Tustari to back him. The fact that the Tustaris decided to support his 
rival disheartened him immensely, and he accuses Nathan of making 
overtures at ‘the doors of the great’. From one of his letters, it emerges that 
someone was even attempting to bribe the people of the yeshiva with 200 
dinars in order to get them to go over to his rival’s camp, perhaps referring 
here to the Tustaris. In the drafts of the petition to the caliph, written by 
Solomon b. Judah’s followers in ca. 1041, there is a clear reference to the 
Tustaris’ support of Nathan. In the petition, they ask the caliph to make 
amends and to see to it that a person who does not belong to their religion 
should not be permitted to intervene in the dispute, and they specifically 
mention ‘Fadl b. Sahl al-Dustarl’, who intervened in the dispute and 
opened the synagogue (in Fustat) for the followers of Nathan. 153 

[881] One can assume that thejews in the entire disapora, and not only 
in Fustat, were involved in the dispute, and the rift probably split and 
divided many communities. We have some information on Qayrawan. 
According to Solomon b. Judah, the Maghribi Nagid, Jacob b. ‘Amram, 
did his best to curb the followers of Nathan in Qayrawan; he was ‘of some 
help.’ In another of Solomon b. Judah’s letters, it is again implied that the 
Nagid of the Maghrib supports him, and even sent a warning from the 
Maghrib to Nathan b. Abraham ‘not to touch me’. This fact deserves 
special attention considering that we know of Nathan b. Abraham’s 
prolonged stay in the Maghrib, and also that he had close friends there. 

333-336, whose translation of the colophon should be corrected; the explanation for the 
story which belittles the exilarchic house written by Nathan, is sought by Mann in the 
tradition of the Palestinian yeshiva and its rivalry with the Karaite nesVhn , see ibid ., further 
thoughts on the possible aim of the story; also see on this matter: Gil, ibid., 40f. 

153 The episode of the reading of the Megilla: 183, Mention of the Karaites: 196; ‘the other 
sect’: 126, lines 24—25. Solomon b. Judah on the Tustari: 128, lines 15-20; 130, lines 25ff. 
The bribery: 131, b, lines 9-10. The Tustaris in the drafts: 197, b, lines 11-12, 19, 23-25. 


7IO 



THE GEON1M OF PALESTINE fSECS. 849-901) 

The two letters written from Fustat by Abraham b. David ibn Sughmar 
and Ghalib ha-Kohen b. Moses, to the Nagid of Qayrawan, indicate that 
they expected him to exert greater efforts on behalf of the old Gaon. We 
find there the information that Nathan b. Abraham’s supporters claimed 
that the Nagid was on their side, the writer anticipating a very staunch 
denial of this claim. It also says that from the outset, Nathan b. Abraham 
left the Maghrib with two letters of recommendation from the Nagid to 
the wazir in Fustat, in order to help him get closer to the Fatimid court. 
They also ask the Nagid to write to Fustat and to Palestine and state their 
support for the excommunication which the Gaon pronounced against 
Nathan b. Abraham. In addition, they sent to the Nagid letters written to 
him by Solomon b. Judah, in two copies, one by camel caravan and the 
other by sea. 

One of Solomon b. Judah’s major followers was Daniel b. Azariah. 
Most of the available information about him shall be discussed in the 
continuation, as he later became the Palestinian Gaon. As I have already 
mentioned, he wrote a number of letters some years after the dispute about 
his backing of Solomon b. Judah and the priestly brothers (which he 
regretted). This is also clearly implied in the above-mentioned letter to the 
Nagid written by Abraham b. David ibn Sughmar, in which he precedes 
his comments on the dispute with expressions of joy and enthusiasm on 
the arrival of Daniel b. Azariah in Fustat, which in fact have no connection 
with the affair of the dispute, but for all that, confirm the closeness 
between Daniel and Solomon b. Judah’s supporters, the ‘Palestinian’ 
congregation in Fustat. This congregation, led by Ephraim b. Shemaria 
and his son-in-law Ghalib ha-Kohen b. Moses, was the major bastion 
behind the old Gaon, and the arrival of Daniel b. Azariah, the scion of the 
exilarchic family, certainly added both weight and prestige. On the other 
hand, there were some members of this congregation as well who went 
over to Nathan b. Abraham’s side, such as Solomon he-haver b. Meir rosh 
ha-seder, who at first was loyal to Solomon b. Judah and afterwards moved 
over to the opposition. 

Abraham b. David ibn Sughmar, whose letters I have discussed and 
about whom I have described whatever information we have at our 
disposal (see sec. 750), was undoubtedly one of the most active of the old 
Gaon’s followers in Fustat. Solomon b. Judah insisted that the letter he 
was sending to Ephraim b. Shemaria should also be sent to the masos so 
that he could send them on to the Maghrib. There is no question then that 
the ‘tnasos [joy] of the yeshiva’, Abraham b. David ibn Sughmar, who was 
a sort of intermediary between the Maghrib and the Palestinian yeshiva, 

Here there is clear proof that the Tustaris were Karaites, cf. Stern, REJ, 128 (1969), 211; 

Gil, ha-Tustarim, 59-63. 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


was active on behalf of the Gaon. In another fragment of a letter of 
Solomon b. Judah which has been preserved from the days of the dispute, 
the ntdsos and his correspondence with him are mentioned, and he may 
have been referring to him when he writes there that ‘his grandfather was 
one of the righteous of Israel’, ‘and they belong to the great of the city of 
Fas’. It seems that the antagonism between Abraham ibn Sughmar and 
Nathan began when the latter was staying in Fustat. In his letter from 
there, Nathan describes how Ibn Sughmar became implicated in an affair 
with ‘a gentile prostitute’, that is, a Muslim. He depicts the affair in his 
letter to the above-mentioned Abu Yusuf Eleazar b. Samuel (Isma‘11). 
There may have been a certain amount of exaggeration and slander in this 
description. From another letter, written (or copied) by Ghalib ha-Kohen 
b. Moses, it appears that the congregation sided with Ibn Sughmar, and 
decided that the Gaon (Solomon b. Judah) should be asked to cancel the 
excommunication on him (an excommunication declared by Nathan b. 
Abraham, as is implied from the above-mentioned letter). We have an 
additional document connected with this subject, which consists of two 
parts. The first is a fragment of a letter from the Jerusalem parnas ‘Eli b. 
Ezekiel. It contains accusations against Nathan b. Abraham’s camp for 
persuading the Karaites in Fustat to support him; those supporters vilify 
Ephraim b. Shemaria and the Karaite personalities who, it seems, stand 
behind Solomon b. Judah. Evidently this letter was written in Ramla, and 
it says that attached to it are letters from one of the personalities of Ramla, 
Hayyim he-liaver b. Solomon he-haver, written to Abu Ishaq Abraham 
al-AndalusI, whose identity is not clear to me at the moment, but who was 
certainly one of the leaders of the Maghribis. Abraham b. David ibn 
Sughmar, who can be recognised by his handwriting, affixed another leaf 
with a copy of a letter, also from Palestine, to ‘Eli b. Ezekiel’s letter. The 
anonymous writer, probably one of the loyal supporters of the Jerusalem 
Gaon and perhaps one of the priestly brothers (Joseph and Elijah, sons of 
Solomon Gaon), turns to one of Fustat’s notables and asks him to use his 
influence with the caliph to obtain an official order in favour of Solomon b. 
Judah (he calls him: Abu Da’ud Sulayman b. Judah al-Fasi). The spirit of 
the letter is similar to what we find in letters to the caliph and also in the 
memorandum on the prerogatives of the head of the yeshiva. Here too, the 
role played by Abraham b. David b. Sughmar in the dispute is stressed, as 
well as that of the mediator with the authorities, Abu’l-Qasam (‘All ibn 
‘Abd al-‘AzIz), Ibn al-Ukhuwwa. 

In Palestine itself, there were certainly many followers loyal to the old 
Gaon, despite the fact that the scales were at first inclined to come down in 
favour of his rival. Their names have not been preserved, with the excep¬ 
tion of a man whose Arabic name was Rawh. Nathan b. Abraham men- 


712 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 


tions him in his letter to the anonymous ‘friend of the yeshiva’: ‘why 
should Rawh and his relatives force us to have a man appointed over us, 
whom we do not want’. This Rawh was apparently one of the wealthy 
men of Ramla. Solomon b. Judah mentions him in connection with the 
transfer of money in money orders from Fustat to Jerusalem, but we 
cannot identify him more precisely. Perhaps, he is sar meniihd, whom the 
Gaon praises in a letter written after the dispute, alluding perhaps to the 
Arabic word Rawh, which corresponds to the Hebrew meniihd , rest, 
relaxation. 154 

[882] As to appeals to the authorities, this was a central and obvious fact 
in the course of the dispute. At first, the authorities in Palestine favoured 
the old Gaon and supported him against the young rival who had appeared 
on the scene. We have already witnessed Abraham, son of the Gaon, 
hastening to Damascus when the dispute broke out, whence he brought a 
tawqi' (order), probably from the Fatimid army commander in al-Sham, 
which confirmed the status of Solomon b. Judah. Nathan b. Abraham and 

154 ‘Some help’: 128; Hirschberg, History, I, 214, mistakenly assumed that the reference was 
to some trouble experienced by the Jews in the Maghrib. The warning: 131, a, line 19; b, 
line 2. The complaint that the Nagid supported Nathan, and what they asked of him: 191, 
lines 33ff; 192, lines 19fF; the Gaon’s letters to the Nagid, ibid., lines 41ff. See onjacob b. 
‘Amram: Mann, JQR. NS 9(1918/9), 162f; idem, Jews, I, 144; see TS Loan 40, Part II, the 
opening of a letter to him from the exilarch Hezekiah b. David, cf. Goitein, Mediterranean 
Society, II, 24f; 525, nn. 6-10. The connection between Abraham b. David ibn Sughmar 
and the Nagid is also shown in Mosseri II150 (formerly L 151), in the handwriting oflbn 
Sughmar (see above, in the note to section 750). The additional document: 192a; the 
letters to the caliph: 196, 197; the memorandum on the head of the yeshiva: 311. Another 
interesting item: on the reverse side of these attached letters, 192a, Abraham b. David ibn 
Sughmar affixed a fragment from the Letter of Sherira Gaon (written by the Gaon some 
sixty years earlier). This fragment is a parallel to what is printed in the Lewin edition, 
p. 109, line 13, to p. 114, line 12, and on the whole, the version resembles what Lewin 
calls ‘the French version’. It seems that the copyist was especially interested in that 
passage of Sherira Gaon’s Letter, because it describes the disputes and divisions that 
occurred in the Pumbedita yeshiva, when there were two geonim, and how Rav Joseph 
withdrew and was satisfied with the rank of av-bet-din. Also further (what was pre¬ 
served): the split between Rav Menahem and Rav Matityahu. See ENA 1490, f. 7v; in 
comparison with the edited version of Sherira Gaon’s Letter, there are some omissions. 
An interesting reading (Lewin, p. 110, line 3: line 6 in the MS): mi-setar ‘arisha, i.e., one 
has to leave place (for the prophet Elijah) on the right side of the sitting place. Mann, who 
did not know the letters 191 and 192 in their entirety, was undecided about the identity of 
the Nagid, to whom the fragments he knew were written, and assumed at first that the 
reference was to Joseph b. Samuel, the Spanish Nagid; see his Jews, II, 352; and also in 
Texts, I, 328, he could not identify him. The joy at the coming of Daniel b. Azariah to 
Fustat, see the beginning of 191. Solomon b. Judah on the masos : 126, line 27; the other 
fragment: 129, lines 8, 27-28; Mann, Jews, I, 132f, was mistaken in thinking that the 
fragment dealt with a dispute in Fustat, for in the margin it says there: ‘it was said indeed 
that Solomon b. Meir made peace with the band of plotters’, referring to Solomon 
he-haver b. Meir rosh ha-seder, whose support for Solomon b. Judah I have mentioned 
above; and he seems to have changed his mind. Nathan on Abraham b. David ibn 
Sughmar: 176. The Fustat congregation on Ibn Sughmar’s side: 177. Rawh and his 
relatives: 187, lines 19-20. The transfer of money: 116, line 13. Sar meniihd: 132, line 14; 
Mann, Jews, I, 146, n. 1, assumed that he was David ha-Levi b. Isaac. 

7G 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

his faction then started to put pressure on the local authorities not to 
stand by Solomon b. Judah. Nathan describes this situation in a letter to 
the anonymous ‘friend of the yeshiva’. The pressure consisted mainly of 
the threat (accompanied by an oath in the name of mawlana, that is, the life 
of the caliph) that they would approach the mishne, that is, the wazlr. 
Indeed, this pressure was effective and Nathan’s followers took control of 
Jewish communal life in Ramla unhindered. The wazir at the time of the 
dispute was Abu’l-Qa’im ‘All b. Ahmad al-Jarjara’i, who became wazir in 
AH 418, that is AD 1027, and who remained in this post seventeen years, 
until his death on 7 Ramadan AH 436, that is 28 March AD 1045. 

It seems that considerable weight was added to Nathan b. Abraham’s 
camp by the support of the Tustaris, which was lent special substance as a 
result of the appointment of Hesed al-Tustari, in the very midst of the 
dispute, to the position of katib al-amlr, that is, the official in charge of the 
army on behalf of the Fatimid rulers. We know this from a fragment of a 
letter written by Nathan b. Abraham himself, in which this information is 
preserved. The term al-amlr is probably a shorter version of amir al-juyiish, 
the title of Anushtakin al-Dizbiri, commander of the Fatimid army. 
Nathan b. Abraham adds there that Hesed al-Tustarl ‘looks after us and 
listens to what we tell him’. The addressee, whose identity we do not 
know, is asked to write Hesed al-Tustari a letter of thanks, in which he is 
to be congratulated on his appointment. 

The authorities’ intervention is reflected also in letters written by sup¬ 
porters of Solomon b. Judah to the Nagid of Qayra wan, Jacob b. ‘ Amram, 
in the summer of 1039. He is asked to apply to the authorities. Something 
which it seems is not mentioned at all in the Arab chronicles, is implied in 
these letters; namely the close contact between the local Zirid rulers in the 
Maghrib and the central Fatimid rule in Egypt, and the influence exercised 
by the ruler of Qayrawan on the central authority. From the first, or so the 
writers of the letter claim, Nathan b. Abraham wanted to get the assistance 
of the authorities and for this purpose used the two letters of recommen¬ 
dation that he received from the Nagid of Qayrawan to ‘the elder Ibn 
al-Ukhuwwa’, asking him to intervene on his behalf with the caliph. Now 
they ask the Nagid to make his amends and obtain a letter from sayyidna 
amir al-umard’ (our Lord the commander of the commanders) sharaf al- 
dawla and tdj al-milla (the glory of the kingdom and the crown of the 
religion), who is Mu'izz b. Badls, ruler of Qayrawan, to the (Fatimid) 
wazir, safi amir al-mu’minln wa-khalisathu (which is something like: ‘the 
true and chosen friend of the caliph’), and to Abu’l-Qasim (or al-Qasam) 
‘All ibn ‘Abd al-‘Az!z al-Ukhuwwa (who is the aforementioned Ibn 
al-Ukhuwwa) that they should support Solomon b. Judah. We do not 
know any further details concerning this Ibn al-Ukhuwwa, but he seems 


714 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

to have been a sort of representative of the ruler of Qayrawan at the 
Fatimid court. 

The importance of the role played by the authorities’ intervention in the 
dispute can also be seen in the petitions to the rulers, written by the 
supporters of Solomon b. Judah in Fustat; for instance, the draft of a 
petition to the caliph evidently written by Ephraim b. Shemaria. We find 
here a description of the dispute brought about by ‘a man who came from 
the Maghrib’, noting the fact that the synagogue of the ‘Palestinians’ was 
closed as a result of the dispute because the relatives and intimate friends of 
Nathan had exerted their considerable influence. Finally, the caliph is 
asked to send an order to one of his subordinates to open the synagogue. In 
this draft, there is also a request relating to al-Dizbiri (Muntakhab al- 
Dawla, ‘the excellent of the kingdom’); we do not know the nature of this 
request though we can assume that it touched on the dispute, that is, the 
affairs of the Palestinian yeshiva. From the draft, we also learn of another 
interesting detail, namely that the caliph had already entered into the thick 
of the dispute and appointed a mediator to try to bring about a reconcili¬ 
ation of the two sides. This was David b. Isaac, one of the notables of 
Fustat, who was close to the Fatimid rulers, and on whom I have enlarged 
above. Here, David b. Isaac is accused of actually doing nothing to resolve 
the quarrel. We encounter David b. Isaac again in the drafts written by one 
ofSolomon b. Judah’s supporters, as well as in part of the final outcome of 
these drafts — a petition to the caliph. The time of the drafts and the petition 
is towards the end of 1041. Here, too, it is stated that David b. Isaac did 
nothing to put an end to the dispute and that he failed to fulfil his mission. 
In the final version, we first find a general summary of the dispute, where 
it clearly states that it is a division over leadership, between two authorities 
(; riydsatayn ); while in the continuation there is also the matter of the 
synagogue in Fustat and its closure. Apparently, close to the date of the 
writing of the letter (perhaps during the holidays in Tishri, that is, the 
autumn of 1041) the people of Nathan b. Abraham’s faction suceeded in 
opening the synagogue with the help of the regime’s soldiers ( al-rajjala)\ 
they also made use of the foundations (heqdesh) in Fustat as they saw fit. 
We gather further details from the drafts, which were omitted from the 
final text because they were evidently thought to be too sensitive. In the 
drafts, it says that the caliph should no longer suffer the domination of one 
faction over another. It is also stated that the person behind the forceful 
takeover of the synagogue was Fadl (Hesed) b. Sahl al-Tustari, with the 
help of the kdtib al-sind‘a , the chief official of the Nile harbour in Fustat, a 
certain Abu’l-Mand. These people used their high rank and large sums of 
money in order to obtain what they wanted. In the final draft, the amir 
Muntakhab al-Dawla, that is al-Dizbiri, is also mentioned, and the caliph 


715 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

is requested to order him to treat both factions with impartiality with 
regard to the synagogues and that neither faction should dominate the 
other and that no one should enforce religious matters by sending armed 
units to the synagogues on the sabbath and holidays. 155 

[883] Apparently, it was the intervention of the authorities which finally 
put an end to the dispute. Solomon b. Judah explicitly says as much in a 
letter written immediately after a reconciliation was arrived at and at 
which he expresses his pleasure. Peace, he writes, which really meant the 
capitulation of Nathan b. Abraham, was obtained through the efforts of 
the governor of Jerusalem; by what God has put ‘in the heart of the 
governor of the Holy City’ and thanks to the other grandees of the city 
(‘the big ones of the city’), by order of the governor of jund Filastln (‘and 
over everyone the great ruler in Ramla’); and on the basis of the order 
issued to the latter by the caliph and the wazir (‘the great king’, ‘the 
mishne). The letter also mentions several figures who also evidently put 
pressure on the rulers in this matter, such as ‘the splendid prince, sar 
meniiha, whom I have already tried to identify with that anonymous Rawh 
who supported the Gaon; Mawhub b. Yefet; the father of Mawhub 
(evidently) Yefet ‘head of the congregation’; and Abraham, who is appar¬ 
ently Abraham b. Mevasser. 

The nature of the peace itself becomes clear to us from a very special 
document in the form of a memorandum written in Jerusalem. The main 
points of the agreement were as follows: (1) Nathan b. Abraham would 
forego the titles he bestowed on himself and others; in other words, he 
would no longer be called Gaon and his appointment of judges and 
haverim and other titles which he conferred during the dispute would be 
invalid. (2) He would not grant any titles in the future (literally: he would 
not pray over anyone) unless it was with the agreement of the four: the 
Gaon, Tobiah ‘the third’ b. Daniel, Joseph and Elijah sons of Solomon 
ha-Kohen Gaon (‘the fourth’ and ‘the fifth’). On the other hand, the 

155 The tawqV: 182, at the beginning. The letter to ‘the friend of the yeshiva’: 187, lines 16ff; 
Mann, Jews, II, 171, n. 1, understood inau’ldnd (our master) in whose name they take the 
oath — as God, but it is clear that they mean the caliph, cf. Goitein’s note in the Preface to 
the aforementioned book by Mann. Al-Jarjara’i: Ibn al-Sayrafi, 37f; Ibn al-QalanisI, 84; 
Ibn Khallikan, III, 408; cf. the article al-Djardjara'i (by D. Sourdel) in EP. The matter of 
Hesed al-Tustari: TS AS 157.231, 232. Apparently, it is impossible to be certain whether 
the reference is still to al-Dizbirl, since at this time, someone else may have held the 
position of amir al-juyiish; but in the drafts of the petition addressed to the caliph, they refer 
to an order to be given by the caliph to Muntakhab al-Dawla al-Dizbirl, The Nagid of 
Qayrawan: 191, lines 33-35; 53; 192, lines 24-31, 40, see also in the notes to these letters; 
Mu‘izz b. Badls, head of the Banu Sinhaja, who rose to prominence in the days of 
al-Hakim, and received from him the title sharafal-dawla, see Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, IX, 258; 
cf. Idris, La Berberie, I, 149; Cohen, AJSR, 1(1976), 16f; 32, nn. 118, 119; Goitein, Letters, 
309, n. 16. The first draft: 196; the seven drafts and the petition: 197, and see the notes to 
these documents. 


716 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 


appointments made by Solomon b. Judah would remain in force. Nathan 
b. Abraham promises to support actions against those who take on titles or 
appointments without the agreement of the five (that is, himself and the 
aforementioned four), which form the only authoritative body to confirm 
appointments, and no other person is to be appended to it. (3) The 
prerogative of sitting in judgment and of supervising the foundations 
(. heqdeshim ) and the ritual slaughter in Ramla will rest with Joseph ha- 
Kohen ‘the fourth’. If another of the yeshiva’s personalities happens to be 
in Ramla, he will only be able to receive the right to make decisions with 
Solomon b. Judah’s agreement. (4) If Nathan is moved to another position 
in the yeshiva - a hint that after Solomon b. Judah’s death, he will become 
the Gaon - he will not be able to change the accepted order of advance in 
the yeshiva; that is, he would not be able to appoint additional people to 
the ranks of av-bet-din, ‘the third’, etc. (5) Nathan can sit in judgment in 
Ramla only if the people to be judged have not been formerly judged by 
Joseph ha-Kohen; in other words, though he is av-bet-din of the yeshiva, 
cases whichjoseph ha-Kohen had already begun to deal with would not be 
passed on to him. It is stressed there that this clause only applies to him, 
that is to say that anyone appointed by the Gaon would have the right to sit 
on such court cases. The date of the agreement is Hosha‘na rabba AM 
4803, that is 8 October AD 1042 (a Friday). The agreement was then 
signed on the seventh day of the holiday, perhaps during the mass congre¬ 
gation on the Mount of Olives. Thus the dispute which had lasted for four 
whole years came to an end. The signatories to the agreement were 
Solomon b. Judah, who naturally signed ‘head of yeshiva Ge’on Ya‘aqov; 
Nathan, who signed: ‘av-bet-din of all Israel’; Tobiah ‘the third’ b. Daniel; 
Joseph ‘the fourth’ and Elijah ‘the fifth’, sons of Solomon Gaon; and apart 
from these, Hezekiah the nasi b. Solomon (the Karaite nasi ) and Mevorakh 
b. ‘Allun b. Moses, about whom we have no further information. A few 
days later, on Marheshwan 1354 Sel., October-November AD 1042, 
Solomon b. Judah writes to Ephraim b. Shemaria, and after summing up 
the motives which led to the dispute, he points out that there were still 
some who would not-agree to the peace, for selfish reasons (‘who only 
quarelled for their own needs’). It emerges that he had written a letter on 
the subject of the reconciliation to the Fustat congregation before that, but 
as the letter was addressed to Ephraim b. Shemaria, the congregation 
would not accept it and he was obliged to write another letter, which was 
explicitly addressed to the ‘Palestinian’ congregation. He also considered 
having Nathan sign the letter, with his title ‘Nathan av-bet-din of all Israel’ 
and even sent it to Ramla for this purpose, but Nathan had left for 
Damascus in the meantime. 156 

156 Solomon b. Judah’s letter: 132. The Jerusalem agreement: 199. There will be a separate 


7X7 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

[884] It is clear that the dispute ended in Nathan b. Abraham’s downfall. 
Although he retained his status as av-bet-din, the second rank in the 
yeshiva, all his actions and decisions made during the dispute were totally 
invalidated, and the position of the priestly brothers, Joseph and Elijah, 
was strengthened by their becoming ‘the fourth’ and ‘the fifth ‘ in the 
yeshiva. The name of Abraham ‘the fourth’ b. Samuel b. Hosha'na is 
missing, which may be due to the fact that he did not remain loyal to the 
winning side, or that he may have been ill or had even died around the time 
of the conclusion of the dispute. Tobiah b. Daniel, the son of Shemaiah 
Gaon’s sister, continued, as formerly, as ‘third’ in the yeshiva. He died a 
short time afterward, evidence of which can be seen in drafts of letters of 
condolence written in Fustat by Ephraim b. Shemaria to Nathan b. 
Abraham and to Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon, on 21 February 1043. In the 
letter of condolence addressed to Nathan b. Abraham, Ephraim b. Shema¬ 
ria added something about a court document (shimmush) which was vali¬ 
dated injerusalem, an indication that Nathan b. Abraham was once again 
engaged in legal affairs. After the death of Tobiah b. Daniel, the priestly 
brothersjoseph and Elijah became ‘third’ and ‘fourth’ in the yeshiva, as we 
have seen. Indeed, we have the signature of Elijah ha-Kohen as ‘the fourth 
of the haviira, son of a Gaon, of righteous memory’ on a deed from the year 
1045. From this, we can also conclude that in 1045, Nathan b. Abraham 
was still alive and active as av-bet-din in the yeshiva. It appears that he died 
some time shortly afterward, for in a letter written by Abraham son of the 
Gaon (when Solomon b. Judah was still alive) to Sahlan b. Abraham, 
about what had happened during the month of Tishri in the Jerusalem 
yeshiva, he mentions the av-bet-din and his brother ‘the third’. These could 
only have been the priesty brothers, Joseph and Elijah, the one having 
become av-bet-din and the other ‘the third’, which would only have 
become possible after the passing of Nathan b. Abraham, which occurred 
sometime between 1045 and 1051. 

discussion on the Karaite nesTlm; at any rate, the signature of the Karaite Nasi is 
something of a puzzle, although it is clear that in the eyes of the Fatimid rulers the head of 
the Jerusalem yeshiva was the representative of all the Jews, including the Karaites. 
Nathan also wrote on the peace: 200, lines 7—8; the letter was intended evidently for 
Fustat, and he writes of his intention to visit there, ‘to enjoy seeing you and renew the 
covenant of your love'; Isaiah NufusI, who is mentioned there, is perhaps the father of 
Joseph b. al-NufusI, a Karaite of Fustat, mentioned in ULC Or 1080 J 167 in the upper 
margin, line 2; see Udovitch, in: Individualism, etc., 77 (a letter from Musa b. Abl’l-Hayy 
Khallla to Nehorai b. Nissim). That is, it is possible that Nathan continued to maintain 
friendly relations with the Karaites. The additional letter of Solomon b. Judah: 133; see 
also 134, with remaining details on the dispute after it ended; and his letters to Sahlan b. 
Abraham, also written about the same time: 136, 137. To the letters Solomon b. Judah 
wrote after the dispute one should also add 137a, which is perhaps a fragment of a letter to 
the ‘Palestinian’ congregation in Fustat. All he hoped for was ‘Israel’s peace’, he writes 
there of himself; further on, he speaks of ha'ataqat avot and it is difficult to know whether 


718 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901) 

Nathan b. Abraham is credited with an Arabic commentary on the 
Mishna, which is included (all or partly) in a manuscript preserved in 
Yemen, copied by Yahya and Joseph b. David (the grandson of the 
former) Qafih, and which is now in printed form. It mainly deals with the 
meaning of words. Formularies of letters in Nathan’s handwriting have 
been preserved in the Geniza - letters intended to be sent on behalf of the 
yeshiva and which he seems to have prepared for his own use during his 
reign as head of the yeshiva. An elegy in his handwriting has also been 
preserved. Below we shall encounter his only son, Abraham, who was 
also involved in the enormous dispute between Abiathar ha-Kohen and 
David b. Daniel. 157 


Daniel b. Azariah 

[885] The successor to Solomon b. Judah was Daniel b. Azariah, who 
was a descendant of the Babylonian exilarch. After Mar Zutra in the sixth 
century, and Jehoshaphat and Semah, the nesi’im and heads of the yeshiva 
in the ninth century, he was the fourth to unite in his person the two 
supreme ranks, that of nasi and Gaon. He was an offspring of Zakkai, the 
father of David, the Babylonian exilarch during the first half of the 

he meant by this the tradition of the forefathers, or perhaps he was referring to the avot 
bet-din, that is the inclination (that had existed) to oust Nathan b. Abraham from his post. 
157 Tobiah b. Daniel was not a cousin of the priestly brothers, Joseph and Elijah, as Mann 
assumed, basing his assumption on 147, b (Solomon b. Judah’s letter), where the ‘third’ is 
mentioned; see his Texts, I, 326; and following him also Gil, Perdqim (1979), 65, n. 38; the 
‘third’ mentioned there is Elijah ha-Kohen, and thus the relationship did not exist. Letters 
of condolence; 333 (Gil, Peraqim, ibid.-, ‘in the handwriting of Yefet b. David’ which 
should be emended); Mann, Jett's, I, 193f, erred in his interpretation of these letters; see the 
introduction and notes of 333; the matter of the shimtnush there, lines 19fT; Ephraim calls 
himself {ibid., line 9) Nathan’s pupil; Nathan is ‘the voluntary teacher of whoever he 
meets’ (line 6). 341 is a note in Sahlan b. Abraham’s handwriting, in which he asks Aaron 
the cantor b. Ephraim to tend to Aaron he-haver b. Tobiah, ‘the third, of blessed 
memory’, hence we understand that his son, Aaron, went to Egypt sometime after the 
death of his father; and he was also mentioned by Manasseh b. Joshua in his letters from 
Tyre to Shemaiah he-haver b. Joshua in Jerusalem (a relative of Tobiah ‘the third’, from 
the family of Shemaiah Gaon); see the Hebrew Index. Elijah ha-Kohen ‘the fourth’; 564, 
line 22. The letter of Abraham son of the Gaon; 141. The Mishna Commentary; Supple¬ 
ment to the Mishna in the edition el ha-meqordt, Jerusalem 1954/5; see Assaf, Tequfat 
ha-ge’dtnm, 294ff (printed before that in Kiryat Sefer, 10, 1932/4); in the footsteps ofMann, 
who was mistaken about the descendants of Nathan b. Abraham, and invented a grand¬ 
son named Nathan b. Abraham, Assaf placed the Commentary at the end of the eleventh 
century, but we have seen that Nathan b. Abraham died in about the middle of the 
century. It is therefore evident that it is not likely that his commentary would have 
included the sayings of a number of geonim and scholars to be found in the afore¬ 
mentioned manuscript and listed by Assaf in his article. It emerges, then, that only a part 
(and perhaps a small part) of the Commentary is, in fact, the work ofNathan b. Abraham, 
and the matter requires further study. The formularies of the letters, ENA 223, can be 
recognised as being in his handwriting, and here and there they have supra-linear 
vocalisation, with which he would amuse himself. The elegy: ENA 2924, f. 9. 


719 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

tenth century, from the branch of the son of Zakkai, Josiah (Hasan), 
brother of David, as can be seen from their lineage tree in sec. 774. 

As we have seen, Daniel’s grandfather, Solomon b. Josiah, was exi- 
larch, but after him, this branch of the family was excluded from the 
exilarchate and Hezekiah, the grandson of David b. Zakkai, became 
exilarch. Nevertheless, Daniel’s father, Azariah, still called himself ‘the 
exilarch of all Israel’. Apparently, the family was proud of its descent from 
Bustanai, the exilarch at the time of the Muslim conquest, despite the 
aspersions against him for having had children by a Persian captive (the 
fact that she was the Persian king’s daughter meant little to the Jews of that 
time). Daniel’s lineage, however, continued to Baradai b. Bustanai, who 
according to the geonic responsa was the son of Bustanai by his Jewish 
wife. In a qasida written in his honour by a certain ‘Eli ha-Kohen, Daniel is 
called shevtv Bustani, (‘a spark from Bustanai’). His ‘alatna was yeshii'd 
(deliverance; like that of Saadia Gaon). 

Daniel b. Azariah’s brother Zakkai was involved in Daniel’s affairs to a 
certain extent. During the latter’s period as Gaon, he stayed in Fustat, 
where he quarrelled with the local haver, ‘Eli b. ‘Amram. In one of 
Daniel’s letters, he expresses his satisfaction over the fact that the quarrel 
has ended. One feels that he is very critical of his brother, who had 
evidently tried to organise a sort of separate authority within Fustat and 
who enjoyed the income from ritual slaughter (‘he made himself a 
market’) and set up his own faction. Daniel stood aloof from all this and 
points out that although most people know that he is not involved in this 
matter, it creates a great deal of slanderous gossip. At the same time, he 
warns ‘Eli against any abuse of his brother, ‘for he is my brother and the 
son of my father and mother’. In the same letter, Daniel mentions that his 
brother has crossed the Euphrates (apparently not long before), that is, he 
seems to have arrived in Fustat from Iraq after Daniel became Gaon. 

Daniel’s attitude to his brother is also revealed in a letter he wrote to the 
masos, who is evidently Abraham b. David ibn Sughmar. In this letter, he 
thanks the masos for caring for someone very close to him during the 
latter’s illness, of whom he says ‘for he is my brother and flesh and blood’; 
obviously speaking of his brother Zakkai. Apparently, after his arrival in 
Egypt, Zakkai was in the habit of travelling from Fustat, perhaps to 
Palestine, as one gathers from a letter of Daniel b. Azariah and also from a 
letter of Israel b. Sahlun from Jerusalem, written on 29 November 1061, in 
which he mentions the return of‘Zakkai the nast and his son’ to Fustat. 158 
[886] Daniel b. Azariah evidently had four sons. The youngest, David, 

158 See the family tree of the offspring of Zakkai, above on p. 545. In my collection, there are 
some sixty letters and fragments ofletters and court documents, etc. written by Daniel b. 
Azariah and his scribe, or written to Daniel. For earlier surveys of information on him, 


720 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

was born in 1058, four years before the death of his father. In some of the 
letters to him, the writers mention his three sons and send them greetings. 
In the qasida mentioned above, written on 22 March 1057, it appears that 
only two of his sons are mentioned, Samuel and Jehoshaphat. Samuel’s 
name is also found in a deed drawn up on 25 Tishri AM 1386, 19 October 
AD 1074, in Damascus. The court of‘Samuel the nasi the third of the 
havura son of R. Daniel nasi and Gaon, of blessed memory’ is mentioned 

see Mann , Jews, I, 182-185, and see his Geniza sources pertaining to Daniel, ibid., II, 
218-221; 457-461; Goitein, Shalem, 2 (1975/6), 41 ff, edited in full or partly, 25 additional 
documents, and discussed the information they contained; he ascribed 356 to Daniel’s 
brother Zakkai, which was written by Daniel, a matter on which I disagree with him; cf. 
ha-Yishuv, 132ff, where he added another six documents. See Dropsie 462, which 
contains the lineage of Zakkai, Daniel's brother, written by Abraham ha-Levi b, Tamim 
al-Rahbl (evidently at the beginning of the twelfth century), cf. Mann, Poztumski Memorial 
Volume, 19f; Mann read in the aforementioned list: b. Dadoy, and commented there, n. 9, 
that it should be - Baradoy; but this is in fact written this way in the MS. One should note 
that it emerges from the list that Baradoy (the correct spelling should be ‘Baradai’) had a 
son named Hasdai, whereas according to the responsum of the Gaon, Baradai and Hasdai 
were brothers, sons of Bustanai from his Jewish wife. (The nesl’im of the Karaites, whom 
I shall discuss below, claimed descent from Hasdai, unlike Daniel’s family, who claimed 
descent from Baradai, as mentioned above.) See details on the geonic responsa concerning 
Bustanai in: Gil, Tarbiz, 48 (1978/9), 36f, and the table ibid., 44. The family tree in TS 8 K 
22, f. 5, edited by Mann, Jews, II, 357, is not credible, as Daniel’s grandfather is called 
there Joseph, while we know for certain that his name was Solomon, see 191, lines 15-17, 
where he is mentioned with this lineage; see also Goode, JQR, NS 31(1940/1), 163f. See 
the qasida BM Or 5557 K, f. 8, edited by Fleischer, Shalem, 1(1973/4), 70, line 162; in the 
Hebrew version of the present book there are a few completions to this edition, see vol. I, 
584, and in the note. One verse apparently praises Daniel for having restored the 
Damascus community to the rashiit (authority) of the Jerusalem yeshiva. TS Box K 16, f. 
36 is written in the same handwriting as that of the aforementioned qasida, and it is 
interesting that there is an anti-Babylonian verse there. We have no further information 
on Zakkai, Daniel’s brother. Something of a myth was created around him - that he had 
settled in Mosul. Actually we have no proof of this; this grew out of what Mann said as an 
assumption, relying mainly on a Geniza fragment with the opening of a letter, ‘from 
Zakkai b. Azariah Nasi of the diaspora of all Israel’ to the elders of Damascus. While there 
is some basis to believe that the writer is the brother of Daniel b. Azariah and belongs to 
the branch ofjosiah b. Zakkai, one must bear in mind that the nesl’im of Mosul are only 
mentioned at the end of the twelfth century (1174). Thus, what I have written in the 
Hebrew version of the present book, has to be rectified. See also Assaf, T equfat ha-ge’onim, 
35. Goode, JQR, 31(1940/1), 166, circumvented this problem, making Samuel of Mosul 
(1174—1195) a nephew of Daniel b. Hasdai, that is, of the branch of David b. Zakkai, and 
ignoring what Mann writes in the Poznattski Jubilee Volume, 23, on the basis of the lineage 
lists, that he was the descendant of the other branch, that ofjosiah b. Zakkai. Bodl MS 
HebelOl, f. 18 is a fragment of a letter‘from Zakkai b. Azariah, nan of the diaspora of all 
Israel, to all the mighty elders, our friends, in the city of Damascus’; Mann assumed (Jews, 
1, 175f; II, 208) that it is from the second half of the twelfth century; but ibid., MS, he 
corrected this, noting that it was probably written by Zakkai, the brother of Daniel. 
Daniel on his brother: 356, a, lines 5ff; b, lines llff. The letter to the mdsos: 378. TS NS 
338.94, a small fragment, written by Daniel b. Azariah, also contains thanks to someone 
who treated his brother ( mawld’ial-nasi) well. In the continuation he says as usual: ‘since 
his honour is my honour and his rank is my rank’. The letter of Israel b Sahlun: 479, b, line 
17. 


721 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

there. Possibly Daniel’s third son died before 1057, when the qastda was 
written. As to David, he was born a year later. Daniel’s son-in-law (or 
perhaps his brother-in-law? - sihr) Abu’l-Sari (or: Abu’l-Surri) 
Barhun (Abraham) is also mentioned, but we have no details about him, 
except for the fact that after Daniel’s death, he is to be found in Damas¬ 
cus. 

Daniel hailed from Baghdad. This is clearly stated in the Scroll of 
Abiathar: ‘He came up above them [‘above’ Joseph and Elijah, sons of 
Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon] from Babylonia’. A letter written by Daniel 
from al-Mahdiyya to Sahlan b. Abraham, on Tuesday 11 Tishri AM 4799, 
12 September AD 1038, has been preserved. One can discern from the 
letter that there was an earlier correspondence between the two and that 
Daniel has been writing to him since they parted. From this we understand 
that before his arrival in the Maghrib, in the autumn of 1038, Daniel had 
stayed in Fustat. He notes in his letter, the marriage of Sahlan, which we 
know took place on 9 September 1037. Hence we may assume that his 
earlier arrival in Fustat probably occurred around 1036. In this letter, 
Daniel expresses his sorrow over the troubles which befell the Fustat 
community, noting however with satisfaction that things had now 
changed for the better, thanks to Abu Nasr, that is Hesed al-Tustari. 
Naturally, he is referring to the ‘Babylonian’ congregation in Fustat, 
where there seems to have been some tension related to the dispute which 
had begun to develop at that time between the Palestinian yeshiva and 
Nathan b. Abraham. 

From al-Mahdiyya, Daniel returned to Fustat. We find him there in the 
summer of 1039, when Abraham b. David ibn Sughmar begins his letter 
to the Nagid of Qayrawan with enthusiastic comments on Daniel’s per¬ 
sonality and his activities in Fustat. His arrival there has produced a real 
change in the life of the community. He has restored the congregation, 
issued regulations concerning family matters (relations with female 
slaves), forbidden the participation in sensual parties with musicians. This 
may have been where the relationship between Daniel and the ‘Palestinian’ 
congregation first began, and as a result, his support for Solomon b. Judah 
(as evidently shown by most of this congregation), while the ‘Babylo¬ 
nians’ were then in favour of Nathan b. Abraham, which created a certain 
distance between Daniel and the latter congregation. Daniel remained in 
Fustat until after 1045, that is at least for six to seven years. This we learn 
from the letter written by ‘Eli ha-Mumhe - the son of Abraham ‘the 
fourth’, the grandson of Samuel ‘the third’ b. Hosha‘na - to Ephraim b. 
Shemaria, in which he asks for news of ‘Daniel al-Nasf, and ‘Eli sends 
regards on behalf of‘the av and his brother’, that is Joseph ha-Kohen and 


722 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

his brother Elijah. As we have seen, Joseph ha-Kohen became au-bet-dm 
some time after 1045, upon the death of Nathan b. Abraham. 159 

[887] At this point, we are dealing with the period prior to Daniel b. 
Azariah’s becoming Gaon. Apart from his communal activities, we now 
find him engaged in trade. A letter concerning his commercial ventures 
has been preserved, evidently written from Damascus to someone in 
Fustat. He speaks there in detail about various merchandise which he 
purchased and the payment of rather large sums, generally tens of dinars, 
to different people. He also deals in silk. His business connections are 
centred in Egypt. Tinnis, the port in the Delta, and Fustat, are mentioned 
there. Despite the fact that his commercial ventures are not on a small 
scale, he complains of his straitened circumstances. Apparently, at the 
same time he wrote to a member of his family (at any rate, someone from 
the exilarchic family), deploring the limited means with which he and his 
large household must contend. In a fragment of another letter, he speaks of 
a deal of200 dinars executed by a certain Abu’l-‘Ala al-Mubarak b. Ishaq, 
and Daniel asks the addressee to pay him 50 dinars for a sujiaja (money 
order), which was evidently his own share of the partnership with this 
man. Another letter which he wrote from Tyre contains details of prices 
there and discusses textiles, oil, timber, and indigo. The addressee is a 
Palestinian staying in Fustat, who is about to return to his family in 
Palestine. Daniel encourages him on his objective and promises that he too 
will come to Ramla to enjoy himself in his company. The two people 
closest to Daniel b. Azariah were Abu Sa‘d Josiah ha-Kohen b. Azariah, 

159 r pj le three sons of Daniel: 386, line 3; 397, line 5; 400, a, line 8; cf. Mann, Jews, I, 175, 185; 
II, 219-221. The qasida: BM Or 5557 K, f. 8, lines 228-234; Cohen, Self-Government , 185, 
n. 16, with a correction of the date in the Damascene deed there: Bodl MS Heb d 75, f. 11; 
see in Mann, ibid., II, 221 (who read there 1396 instead of 1386). Mann, Jews, II, 221, 
speaks about Daniel’s third son, who was allegedly called Josiah, but in the MS ibid., I, 

185, he emended and wrote: Azariah; but what he wrote there is based on the incorrect 
reading of 181, which speaks of Tobiah b. Daniel, ‘the son of the Gaon’s sister’, whereas 
Mann followed Schwab, REJ, 64 (1912), 120 (1934) who read Ahwath instead of ahot 
(sister), hence the incorrect interpretation. Abu’l-Sarl: see the Hebrew Index; David in 
Damascus: 500, margin right. From Babylonia: 559, b, line 9. The letter to Sahlan: 344, 
see the notes there; Goitein, Shalem, 2 (1975/6), 47 (= ha-Yishuv, 137), assumed that the 
exilarch mentioned there was Zakkai, Daniel’s brother. Ibn Sughmar: 191, lines 13ff. ‘Eli 
ha-mumhe: 231. Goitein, Shalem, 2 (1975/6), 55f (= ha-Yishuv, 143), assumed that in 565 
there was evidence that Daniel settled in Palestine in 1046; but the letter speaks of someone 
from an important family in a distant country (Spain?) who came to Jerusalem and died 
there after some time; Daniel b. Azariah would not have been written about in this 
manner. Mann, Jews, II, 360, ascribes TS 16.128 to Daniel b. Azariah, which is a letter of 
recommendation, evidently from a Babylonian personality, for someone travelling to 
Palestine, dated 1031; probably because of the ‘alama - yeshu‘a. For the same reason, he 
even suggested correcting the date there in order to place this document in the time when 
Daniel was still in Iraq; but the handwriting is not Daniel’s, contrary to what Mann 
claims, and this was already realised by Goitein in Shalem, 2 (1975/6), 43 (= ha-Yishuv, 
133). 


723 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


the son of Daniel’s sister, and Abraham ha-Kohen b, Isaac ibn Furat:. Josiah 
ha-Kohen was the son of the head of the Sura yeshiva; his father Azariah 
ha-Kohen, Daniel’s brother-in-law, was the son of Israel ha-Kohen b. 
Samuel b. Hofni (the brother of Nehemiah) b. Kohen Sedeq. Israel and 
Samuel had also been geonim in Sura, while Kohen Sedeq and his son 
Nehemiah, the brother of Hofni, had been geonim in Pumbedita. One can 
assume that Josiah was to be found together with Daniel when the latter 
was Gaon injerusalem, for his signature is found on a deed written in the 
court of the yeshiva. Israel b. Nathan, writing from Jerusalem in the 
summer of 1060, asks Nehorai b. Nissim to arrange something for Josiah 
in Fustat, indicating that he was staying injerusalem at the time. Appar¬ 
ently Josiah ha-Kohen moved to Fustat in the autumn of 1061, and this, 
too, we learn from one of Israel b. Nathan’s letters to Nehorai. 

A letter that evidently contains a description ofjosiah ha-Kohen’s flight 
from Iraq and his journey to Palestine was written by Daniel b. Azariah 
before he had become Gaon. Josiah’s name is not mentioned, but from the 
tone of the letter it can be seen that he is speaking of someone very close, 
and one senses that it is Josiah. Owing to the custom sometimes practised 
by the people of those times, of summarising in their letters the major 
points of the letter they are answering, we can understand what Josiah 
wrote (if indeed it is Josiah to whom he is writing) to Daniel about the 
vicissitudes of his journey. Josiah’s letter was sent from Tripoli in Syria, 
where he arrived after managing to escape from al-Ma‘arra (which is 
Ma’arrat Nu’man) and from wicked men who had taken him from Aleppo 
(where he was in ‘the hands of the enemy’ - perhaps the Byzantines?) to 
Famiya. From there, he succeeded in getting away and reached Saluq, 
whence he also escaped and somehow made his way through the impass¬ 
able mountains. Knowledge of his arrival in Tripoli reached (Jerusalem?) 
during a fast day (we do not know which one) and aroused rejoicing in the 
community. Everyone came to congratulate Daniel and even the fast was 
discontinued. 160 

[888] As to Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn Furat, I have already 
surveyed his special connections with the Fatimid rulers in general, and in 

140 The business letter: 345 . The letter from a member of the exilarchic family: 343 , lines 4—5. 
The fragment: 346 . The letter from Tyre: 347 ; the addressee is perhaps Abraham ha- 
Kohen b. Isaac ibn Furat. Josiah ha-Kohen b. Azariah, see the Hebrew Index. The deed of 
the yeshiva: 392 , line 36. Israel b. Sahlun: 473 , b, lines 4-5. Josiah arrived in Fustat: 479 , b, 
lines 17ff. The description of the journey: 348 . See on Ma'arrat Nu'man: Dussaud, 
Topographie, 188f; Saluq is Seleucia, see: Yaqut, Buldan, III, 126; Famiya is Apamea of 
ancient times, see the entry Alamiya (by H. A. R. Gibb) i:n £F. Josiah's journey evidently 
went from Aleppo, some 50 kilometres to the southwest to Ma'arrat Nu'man, and from 
there still going southwest to Famiya, and from there some fifty kilometres northwest 
(through the mountains) to Seleucia on the Orontes (which is the ‘Ast) and from there, 
evidently by sea to Tripoli. 


724 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-90)] 


particular with the governor of jund FilastTn, whose seat was in Ramla, 
where Abraham ha-Kohen was a physician and lived for many years. The 
close relationship with Solomon b. Judah has also been reviewed, as have 
other similar relations with Daniel b. Azariah. Wc find a note written by 
Daniel in Ramla, apparently, in which he invites Abraham ha-Kohen to 
honour him with his presence and to pray in the synagogue of the ‘Pal¬ 
estinians’, and he asks that he should not be forced to come and get 
Abraham from his house. Daniel even granted him an additional title, that 
of hod ha-zeqemtn, ‘splendour of the elders’. In his letter, he informs him 
that since the title was bestowed on Abu ‘All b. Fadlan in Baghdad, no 
other person had been granted this honour. It is implied that the granting 
of the title was announced in the synagogue and that a prayer was said ‘in 
memory ( tarhlm ) of his forefathers the princes’; and that afterwards, 
benedictions were said for him. Daniel continued to display consideration 
for Abraham ha-Kohen even after he went down to Egypt. The latter had 
a financial claim against someone in Palestine, and Daniel (when he was 
already Gaon) suggests that he have someone appointed trustee to apply to 
the court and see to it that justice is carried out. Daniel also wrote from 
Damascus to Abraham ha-Kohen in Fustat. Eleven letters out of Daniel b. 
Azariah’s documents were written to Abraham ha-Kohen, and it seems 
that one of Abraham’s letters to him was also preserved in the Geniza. 
Abraham ha-Kohen’s move to Egypt saddened the Gaon immensely, and 
he expressed this in one of his letters. He turned to Abraham ha-Kohen 
when one of his intimate circle (’the best of men’) travelled to Egypt and 
needed help there. The only letter which is evidently in Abraham ha- 
Kohen’s handwriting, to Daniel b. Azariah, contains expressions of ex¬ 
treme loyalty and promises of collaboration and assistance. It confirms 
having received Daniel’s letter, in which there was information about the 
death of an important woman in Jerusalem, and continues with ex¬ 
pressions of condolence and much praise for Daniel for having dealt with 
her burial, which he likens to the care ‘the two masters took for our 
mother, their sister Miriam’, that is Moses and Aaron. Below we shall see 
how Abraham ha-Kohen exerted all his influence on the authorities in 
order to help Daniel b. Aza riah obtain the appointment of Gaon, through¬ 
out his struggle with Joseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon, even though 
there was a family relationship between Abraham and Joseph (they were 
cousins). 161 

161 The note from Ramla: 349. 'The splendour of the elders’: 354; Abu ‘All b. Fabian was one 
of the wealthy men of Baghdad, who refused to lend money to the amir Baha’ a)-Dawla in 
998, which aroused anti-Jewish riots, see Fischel, Jews, 33, n. 1; Goitein, Mediterranean 
Society, II, 525, n. 6; that is, Daniel here cites a precedent from some two generations 
earlier. Ibn al-jawzl, Muntazam, V, 190, mentions Abu ‘All ibn Fabian al-yahitdT, in the 
events of450, in Ramadan of that same year, that is, October 1058; there were then riots 


725 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


[889] I shall now discuss the affair of the dispute over the office of Gaon 
following the death of Solomon b. Judah. The historical sequence in the 
Scroll of Abiathar begins with this affair. Daniel was backed by the 
Karaites (‘and was strengthened by the sect of the sela see sec. 848) and 
other elements whose nature cannot be defined, and also by the authorities 
(‘the hand of the rulers’). He did not hesitate to use soldiers {guliyenm ), ‘in 
order to seize houses of learning and completely close them’ (that is, 
arrange for the closing of the synagogues of those who did not support 
him), ‘on any holiday [miqra qodesh], sabbath and [rosh] hodesh’ (first of the 
month), and bring about the arrest of the priestly family (Joseph and 
Elijah, sons of Solomon Gaon, who ‘were hastened to the dungeon’). 

Indeed, this dispute over the office of the Gaon between Daniel b. 
Azariah and Joseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon, who was the older of the 
two priestly brothers, is confirmed by a number of sources. It seems clear 
that Daniel indeed made every effort to achieve the status of Gaon in 
Jerusalem and that this aspiration was already implanted during the life¬ 
time of the former Gaon, Solomon b. Judah. We have seen that Daniel was 
one of the leaders of the Gaon’s supporters during the dispute with Nathan 
b. Abraham, and one can assume that there existed both understanding 
and friendship between Solomon and Daniel. Apparently, still in Solo¬ 
mon b. Judah’s day, Daniel had already expressed his anger towards 
Joseph ha-Kohen, who took every opportunity to malign him. One 
cannot doubt that this was indeed the case, for even then, Joseph saw in 
Daniel a potential rival for the longed-for office. 

To a large extent, the dispute was carried on with the active involve¬ 
ment of the authorities, and Daniel resorted to their help frequently, with 
the support of his good friend Abraham ha-Kohen. The amir Husam 
al-Dawla, who maintained contact with Daniel through an emissary, and 
the qa’id Abu Shuja‘, are explicitly mentioned in the course of the dispute. 
The wazlr, al-hadra al-sdmiya (his majestic honour) in Daniel’s letters, was 
evidently one of Daniel’s supporters. He even mentions that with Abra¬ 
ham’s help, he received an official robe ( khal'a) from the wazir. However, 
there was also strong pressure against him. Daniel requested that Abra¬ 
ham be his champion and advocate, that he uncover whatever his rivals 


against the Jews and the Christians (ahl al-dhimma) and an attempt to oust them from 
positions in the administration. This Ibn Fadlan seems to have been the grandson of the 
one mentioned by Daniel b. Azariah, and it says that he was the secretary ( katib ) of 
Khatun, probably the wife of the Saljuq ruler of Baghdad (Tughril Beg). The matter of 
the claim: 355, a, lines 2-16. The letter from Damascus: 357. The letter from Abraham 
ha-Kohen is (evidently) 399, and see there the note to line 9. The regret at Abraham 
ha-Kohen’s leaving: Palestine is like a deserted place after his departure, see: 355, a, lines 
19-25. The request for help: 360 (although Abraham’s name is not mentioned there, it 
appears that the reference is to him). 


726 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 


were plotting against him and that he broadcast his virtues. Indeed, the 
wazir also issued a manshur in Daniel’s favour, that is, an official document 
of appointment, which was publicly proclaimed. Daniel also asked that, 
with the help of these eminent connections, he should be guaranteed a 
friendly attitude on the part of ‘al-qasln (the chief) who is in Jerusalem’. 
Abu Muhammad, the cadi mentioned in the letter, is none other than the 
wazir Abu Muhammad al-Hasan ibn ‘All b. Abd al-Rahman al-Yazuri 
(whom I have discussed in sec. 598). He seems to have been a friend of 
Abraham ha-Kohen, for they both lived in Ramla for many years. In one 
of his letters to Abraham ha-Kohen, Daniel writes that the local amir , the 
aforementioned Husam. al-Dawla, was trying to scheme against him in 
spite of the manshur of appointment which was already in his hands. Daniel 
wrote to him, attaching to his letter another from one of the important 
intimates of the amir, as well as a copy of the manshur. Nevertheless, the 
rayyis, evidently his rivaljoseph ha-Kohen, at the very time this letter was 
being written, was being invited by a number of notables to Dajun (Bet 
Dagan today; evidently the headquarters of the Fatimid army in Palestine 
was stationed there). It appears that the local authorities were inclined to 
support Joseph, preferring him to Daniel. Hence, Daniel asks Abraham 
ha-Kohen to intervene urgently, implying that he is very much afraid that 
Husam al-Dawla will discriminate against him, the latter’s judgment also 
being highly thought of by the wazir. Indirectly, we learn that the other 
party, the priestly faction, did not hesitate to use the same means, trying 
hard to gain the Muslim rulers’ support. The Scroll of Abiathar naturally 
does not touch on this aspect of the affair. 162 

[890] Further interesting allusions to the internal Jewish aspects of 
the dispute are to be found in letters from Daniel b. Azariah himself, and 
from his contemporaries. In December 1051, Daniel wrote a letter to one 
of the personalities of the Maghrib which reveals something of the ideo¬ 
logical background to his struggle, with its rancour directed against the 
priestly family. It is the exilarchs who are worthy of leading ‘our western 

162 The Scroll of Abiathar: 559 , b, lines 8ff. Goitein, Shalem , 2(1975/6), 51—55 ( = Ha-yishuv, 
139-143), tried to find proof in 213 that Solomon b. Judah was the one who appointed 
Daniel as his successor; but this document is in the handwriting of Zadok ha-Levi b. Levi 
and hence was written in ca. 1030 and has no connection to our present matter, which 
occurred some twenty years later. Daniel’s anger with Joseph ha-Kohen: 363 . Hints on 
the approaching struggle are evidently to be found also in 350 , a fragment of a letter to 
Abraham ha-Kohen, which speaks of some decision to be taken on the sabbath; Daniel 
does not dare do anything in the absence of Abraham. Husam al-Dawla and the rest: 352, 
353 , 355 , b, lines 3-19; 357 , b; Goitein, Shalem, 2(1975/6), 81ff ( Ha-yishuv , 163) assumed 
that this figure -al-hadra al-samiya - was the Nagid, Judah b. Saadia. Above we have seen 
that in one of his letters, Daniel speaks of the cadi Abu Muhammad, who is evidently the 
ship-owning cadi of Tyre, Ibn Abi ‘Aqil; but there is no certain evidence of this, and it is 
possible that the reference is to the wazir al-Yazuri, as they both had the same kunya: Abu 
Muhammad. 


727 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


brethren’; it is they who ‘possess the authority over them and who are 
leading them’; this is a prerogative received from the Bible, ‘and we have 
not seen in the Torah or the Prophets or the Hagiographa any command 
on authority but of our forefathers’. Therefore, there is no validity to any 
leadership of the Jews unless it stems from the House of David, that is, 
from the exilarchic family. In the same letter, Daniel extols the success of 
the pilgrimage in that year, which goes to prove that the authority over the 
Jews ofjerusalem was in fact already in his hands. At about the same time, 
Israel b. Nathan, Nehorai b. Nissim’s cousin, wrote from Jerusalem. He 
lived, as we have seen, in Jerusalem, and his letters to Nehorai were at 
times interspersed with descriptions of public events there. We have seen 
above that Solomon b. Judah died in April 1051. On 20 December 1051, 
that is, when eight months had gone by without a Gaon heading the 
yeshiva, Israel wrote that on that very day, two emissaries had come from 
Ramla to al-rayyis al-Da’udi (the Davidian chief, who was Daniel, for the 
exilarchs claimed they originated from the House of David) and to al- 
rayyis R. Joseph, to take them to the governor in Ramla in order to settle 
the dispute between them. Daniel had only arrived in Jerusalem four days 
earlier, on 16 December, and on the 23rd there was to be a meeting in 
Ramla with the governor. Other notables were to accompany the two to 
Ramla: Elijah ha-Kohen, Joseph’s brother, Mevorakh ‘the sixth’ b. Solo¬ 
mon; the haver Abu’l-Munajja, the physician, and the haver Hayyim (b. 
Solomon). Joseph ha-Kohen claimed that all he wanted now was to be 
appointed av-bet-dm, while his brother Elijah was a lover of peace and 
wanted no rank at all, promising to pray for both Daniel and Joseph. It 
seems that afterward, however, Joseph became stubborn and was not 
satisfied with the role of av-bet-din, demanding that they both be called 
heads of the yeshiva - the title of Daniel would be ‘head of the yeshiva 
Ge’on Ya‘aqov’, whereas he would be called ’head of the yeshiva’. Daniel 
rejected this proposal out of hand and was not prepared to compromise in 
any way. While writing the second letter, on 11 January 1052, attempts 
were again being made to mediate, but these met with no success. It is 
implied in that letter that the Maghribis were on Daniel’s side, conducting 
fervent discussions in Jerusalem, with the participation of people who 
came from various cities. On 24 August, we find Israel writing again 
about the main protagonists of the dispute. Sayyidnd al-rayyis, that is 
Daniel b. Azariah, arrived injerusalem via Nabulus (perhaps coming from 
Damascus), and Elijah ha-Kohen went to welcome him. Not so his 
brother Joseph, who was then staying in Ramla. It is implied that the letter 
was written after an agreement had already been reached between the 
parties. This is in keeping with a letter written by the Jerusalem parnas, 

728 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, on 27 September 1052. The letter is in ‘Eli’s 
handwriting but it was written on behalf of a certain Hasan b. Mu’ammal, 
of Ramla, to Abu Nasr al-Ahwal (‘the cross-eyed’) in Fustat. The date 
noted in the letter is the last day of Tishri, and Hasan depicts there what 
happened in Jerusalem in Tishri during the pilgrimage. According to him, 
‘the Davidian’, that is, Daniel b. Azariah, enquired about the addressee 
(Abu Nasr), and Hasan explained that he could not come because of the 
dispute. It is obvious that the writer is not one of Daniel’s admirers. He 
describes the events in Jerusalem in a disparaging manner; things were 
done that should not have been done and a squabble broke out between 
people from Tyre and the Tiberians, and they were obliged to call in the 
chief of police. Evidently, in the face of such hooliganism and humiliating 
occurrences, the two sides came to the conclusion that the dispute must 
come to an end. Thus, during the congregation on the Mount of Olives 
‘Joseph ha-Kohen prayed for Daniel, head of the yeshiva, while Daniel 
prayed for Joseph, av-bet-din , father of the court and of the methwa (the 
Aramaic word for yeshiva). One can understand from this that the two 
camps reached an agreement in principle in August 1052, while the official 
announcement of the agreement took place on Hosha'na rabba, that is, 
18 September 1052. Hence, the yeshiva had been without a Gaon for 
sixteen months, from April 1051 until September 1052. 163 

[891] The rise of Daniel b. Azariah to the rank of Gaon was not a simple 
matter. On the contrary, it was an unusual event, for according to the 
regulations for advancing in the yeshiva, this position was due to Joseph 
ha-Kohen, who w'as av-bet-din, that is, he occupied the place which was 
second in importance when the former Gaon died. In fact, Daniel’s as¬ 
cendancy to this office was the result of a well-planned campaign. Appar¬ 
ently the initiative for this campaign came from among the Maghribi 

163 Daniel b. Azariah’s letter: 365, lines 5ff. The letters of Israel b. Nathan: 466, a, lines 8ff; 
467, a, lines 11-17; b, line 6; 468, a, lines lOff and margin top; b, lines 1-2. Before this, I 
had a different view of the dates of these letters and hence about the length of the dispute 
altogether; see Gil, Peraqim, 45, 74, see the introductions and notes to these letters in my 
collection. It is clear that the dispute was not ended before the winter of4812 (1051/2), for 
the letters of Israel b. Nathan dealing with the matter were written in Tevet and Shevat, 
and the third was written iti Elul. Hasan b. Mu’ammal: 436; ibid., in line 14, it says that 
Daniel prayed on Joseph ‘father of the court and the methwa’-, it seems therefore that after 
all there was some concession on Daniel's part regardingjoseph’s title. A document from 
the interim period in which the dispute over the office of Gaon was in process is a marriage 
deed from Ramla, 566, written on 29 December 1051; it lacks the customary signature of 
one of the people of the yeshiva, the most important signature there being apparently that 
of Joshua the cantor b. ‘Eli he-haver. It is possible that a fragment of a letter from 
Jerusalem, 563, belongs to the same period; the Jerusalemites complaining there of the 
mismanagement of Jewish affairs in Jerusalem; the writer expresses his loyalty to the 
‘House of Da vid’, which here means his loyalty to Daniel b. Azariah. One can assume that 
Abu Ishaq, whom the writer is addressing, is Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn Furat; but 
naturally this is only an assumption. 


729 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


circles in Fustat. They may have been striving to achieve a sort of mixture 
of the authority to which they belonged, that is, the Palestinian authority, 
to which the Egyptian Jewry was also subordinate, with the authority to 
which they had a special emotional link, the family of the exilarchs. This 
special relationship was undoubtedly a legacy going back for ages, from 
the forefathers of these merchants who had come from Babylonia. Al¬ 
lusions to this campaign, particularly to its outset, are to be found in the 
letter of some unnamed person in Fustat, writing to Daniel b. Azariah; one 
may guess that it is Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn Furat. The writer 
recalls Daniel’s arrival ‘in this land’, and the meeting which took place at 
the house of a certain ‘al-Damsisi’. Even then, the writer knew that it was 
Divine Providence which sent Daniel (that is, from Baghdad to Egypt and 
to Palestine). It seems that the writer had experienced some sharp oppo¬ 
sition and bitter altercations in the past, with one of the notables of the 
community in Fustat, probably ‘Eli b. ‘Amram, he-hdver ha-me‘ulle, the 
successor to Ephraim b. Shemaria’s status and office. ‘Eli credited himself 
with all the achievements of Daniel b. Azariah’, but it was the writer who 
made the effort and struggled. It was ‘the Rav’, the leader of the Maghribis 
(whom we know well from sec. 378), who persistently supported Daniel. 
He was the man who should have succeeded Ephraim b. Shemaria as head 
of the ‘Palestinians’ in Fustat, and the writer regrets that he did not back 
him instead of his rival (that is ‘Eli b. ‘Amram). Now ‘Eli behaves 
arrogantly, abuses the people of the congregation, and even the memory 
of his predecessor, Ephraim b. Shemaria, which upsets the latter’s son-in- 
law, Ghalib ha-Kohen b. Moses. He also offended some of the eminent 
Maghribis in Fustat, such as Abu’l-Surur (suriir = simha, joy, and he is 
evidently the mdsos Abraham b. David ibn Sughmar). Now ‘Eli fears that 
he will be ousted from his post and that the ‘Rav’ will be appointed in his 
stead, so he has started to scheme together with Hunayn, his brother-in- 
law (Abu’l-Tayyib Hanania ha-Levi, the father-in-law of Abraham b. 
Isaac ha-talmid). They are impugning the ‘Rav’ with false charges, that of 
allegedly having converted to Islam (pasha 1 ) when he was in Palestine, and 
then presenting himself as ajew when he came to Fustat. These are strange 
accusations which give us some indication of the persistent tense atmos¬ 
phere of local community quarrels, and also of the influence of factional 
plotting on the central institution of leadership, the Palestinian yeshiva. 
An echo of this can be heard from Jerusalem, in a letter from Avon b. 
Sedaqa to Nehorai b. Nissim, written two years after the death of Daniel 
b. Azariah, in which he charges Nehorai’s cousin, Israel b. Nathan, with 
some sort of madness: that he goes about and complains to whoever will 
listen to him that Nehorai is busy in Fustat making propaganda and 


730 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

collecting money for ‘the Rav’ (perhaps in order to install him in ‘Eli b, 
‘Amram’s place? It is difficult to know the true reason for this). 164 

[892] The period during which Daniel b. Azariah held the office of Gaon 
was a difficult one; it was marked by economic distress and the political 
instability of the Fatimid regime. It was during this time that thejerusalem 
wall was constructed with the funds of its inhabitants, and that the 
Christians were enclosed in a wall within their part of the city, an episode 
that has been discussed earlier. Daniel b. Azariah mentions this event in 
one of his letters, speaking of the wall as if it were a decree imposed on the 
Jews ofjerusalem as well, in about the mid-fifties. A note which he wrote 
at the same time also contains mysterious hints at severe difficulties in 
Ramla and in other places. Indeed, he was visiting Ramla in May 1054, as 
emerges from the letter of Salama ha-Kohen b. Joseph from Ramla to 
Shemaiah he-haver b. Joshua in Jerusalem. The writer had asked Daniel to 
assist in some matter relating to Shemaiah, but Daniel evaded doing so out 
of fear. The same ambiance of vicious decrees and fears pervades Daniel’s 
letter to one of the personalities of Fustat relating to some decree, about 
which we know nothing. 

According to the Scroll of Abiathar, Daniel b. Azariah took ill some six 
years after the death of Joseph ha-Kohen (who died on Hanukkah 1365 
Sel., that is mid-December, AD 1053), that is at the end of 1059. He ‘was 
taken [nikhpe] every year for six months’. This expression was usually 
interpreted as meaning that he was an epileptic, but this is not certain. The 
regular cycles point to some kind of emotional disturbance, such as 
depression, and according to the Scroll, this was but one of the ills he 
suffered from towards the end of his life. There is no indication of illness in 
his letters, however. ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel mentions in two letters, 
evidently written in about 1060, Daniel b. Azariah’s visit to Fustat. Only 
in the third letter does he mention Daniel’s return to Jerusalem. 

During his absence, Jerusalem was in a sorry plight: merchants did not 
arrive and the poor ofjerusalem were suffering from severe distress, for 
they had not received their allowance from Fustat. In addition, the burden 
of taxes was very heavy. In 1059, Israel b. Nathan is engaged in passing on 
queries - put by his cousin Nehorai b. Nissim - to Daniel b. Azariah. He 
notes that Daniel is very busy, for most of his responsibilities fall in Tishri. 
Later, on 14 March 1062, Israel returns to the matter of the queries to the 
nasi. Daniel b. Azariah was staying in Ramla and Israel has sent him 

164 The letter ascribed to Abraham ha-Kohen: 399, a, lines 18ff; see the notes to this 
document. On Hunayn see Gil, Michael , 7(1981/2), 247, n. 5. Avon’s letter: 500, b, lines 
21ff. On the struggles in Fustat during this period, see also the letter of‘Eli ha-Kohen b. 
Ezekiel: 444, lines 13-15 ( ca. 1060), in which the writer expresses concern for ‘my Master 
the masos and his son’; he hopes that Dosa al-Ladhiql and his son Joshua are helping them; 
evidently he is referring to Abraham b. David b. Sughmar. 


73i 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

Nehorai’s letter via a messenger. He promises that Daniel will send the 
responsum to Fustat with a shipment of mail he is sending to Abu Sa‘d 
(who isjosiah ha-Kohen b. Azariah, Daniel’s sister’s son). 

The people of the West, who from the outset had a positive attitude to 
Daniel for his extraction from the House of David, the exilarchic family, 
undoubtedly derived a great deal of satisfaction from his elevated status as 
Gaon. This was expressed by Samuel, the Spanish Nagid, in one of the 
poems he sent to Daniel: ‘tell anyone asking of Daniel, that he is a wide sea, 
with no shores .. . since the day he took over rule Truth stepped in instead 
of Lie ... like a cedar of wdsdom . . . Oh that I had wings, for then would I 
fly to the House of God, to look at the scion of David’. There was 
evidently a very strong link between Daniel b. Azariah and the Spanish 
negidim, Samuel, and Samuel’s sonjoseph, and Daniel even granted them 
titles (it is not clear which titles) on behalf of the yeshiva. It is possible that 
it was Daniel who grantedjoseph b. Samuel the title Nagid that was also 
held by his father. 

We do not have much knowledge of what went on at the yeshiva during 
Daniel’s term of office. An interesting document is an anonymous letter 
informing Daniel that a certain Nathan ‘the money-changer’ and his son 
are about to arrive, suggesting that Daniel receive them with great cour¬ 
tesy and try to win their approval, because they are his devoted followers 
and the important thing is that ‘they are loaded with dinars [zehuvim]’. 

We know 7 who was the scribe of the yeshiva in Daniel b. Azariah’s day- 
Abu’l-Faraj Semah b. Eleazar. Daniel calls him ‘Semah, our scribe’ (sajra 
dilana). ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel recommends this Semah to ‘Eli ha-Kohen 
b. Hayyim, the Fustat parnas, in one of his letters. He is expected to arrive 
in Fustat, and to fulfil certain expectations that are not clarified in the 
letter. He will stay with sayyidna al-nast Abu’l-Rida, that is, a member of 
the exilarchic family whose name is Abu’l-Rida. We do not know 7 who 
bore this by-name and it is not unlikely that it was Daniel himself, for he 
was also staying in Fustat at the time. It is also worth noting that during 
Daniel b. Azariah’s time, we find a number of Jerusalem Maghribis 
suddenly bearing the title haver, w 7 hich seems to have been granted to them 
by Daniel, as in the case of Shemaiah he-haver b. Yeshu‘a, Abraham 
he-haver b. ‘Amram and Moses he-haver b. Jacob. 165 

[893] To what extent Daniel b. Azariah was involved in the life of the 

165 The matter of the wall: 357, b, lines 9-10. The note: 364. Salama’s letter: 525, a, lines 
11-15 (he calls him ‘the head’ there, clearly speaking of Daniel). The decree: 381. Daniel’s 
illness: 599, b, lines 12ff. ‘Eli ha-Kohen’s letters: 442, a, lines 13-15 (implying that Daniel 
-‘our Master the Nasi’-is in Fustat); 443, a, lines 7,14,18-19; 444, a, line 5. The letters of 
Israel b. Nathan: 469, a, lines 22-24; 482, a, lines 5-8. Document 353a is a fragment of a 
letter from Daniel, evidently to Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn Furat, written shortly 
after the end of the dispute over the office of Gaon, that is, towards the end of1052; the av. 


732 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 


communities under his jurisdiction, we can learn from the information we 
have on Fustat. The letters to Fustat in particular (apparently similar letters 
were despatched to the rest of the communities) reveal Daniel’s true 
character, the decisiveness and cleverness with which he managed affairs - 
qualities which were stiited to a man who was probably a shrewd man of 
business before he became Gaon. The changes in the personnel of the 
yeshiva which took place after the death of Solomon b. Judah were more 
or less parallel in time to the changes in Fustat, when both Ephraim b. 
Shemaria, leader of the ‘Palestinians’, and Sahlan b. Abraham, leader of 
the ‘Babylonians’ died apparently at about the same time (we do not have 
the dates of their deaths). Owing to the Geniza, we know what was 
occurring among the ‘Palestinians’, whose new leader was ‘Eli b. 
‘Amram. 

Above, I have already mentioned the letter of condolence from Daniel 
b. Azariah to Ghalib ha-Kohen b. Moses, on the death ofhis father-in-law, 
Ephraim b. Shemaria, which has been preserved. We have also noted the 
meeting in the house of al-DamsisT, and how Daniel’s supporters were 
organised in the Egyptian capital. In general, one gets the impression that 
there were factions amongst the ‘Palestinians’ in Egypt, but ‘Eli b. ‘Am- 
ram’s position seems to have been especially solid and the Gaon preferred 
him to the Maghribis and their leader, the ‘Rav’. Some reservations 
concerning local appointments are revealed in the above-mentioned note, 

that is, av-bet-dm, who is Joseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon, intends leaving for Ramla; an 
order arrived from the caliph, containing the appointment of the new Gaon, but as it was 
written in the midst of the dispute, when the matter was still undecided, the name of the 
Gaon was lacking. Hence, Daniel requests that a new and proper sijill be sent. Apart from 
ornately framed claims of friendship for Abraham ha-Kohen, similar to those Daniel had 
used in other letters to him, the copying of a prayer book for Abraham is also mentioned. 
Thejerusalem paper, writes Daniel, is not good enough, and paper has been ordered from 
Tyre; the work has been assigned to the best of copyists. A poem in the handwriting of 
‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, of which only a small part can be made out, was written in 
honour of Daniel b. Azariah, containing a new element, mention of‘the fourth’ of the 
yeshiva, Mevorakh, and ‘the fifth’, Abraham. We have no further details on them nor do 
we have any further sources on the subject of titles of this kind in the yeshiva during 
Daniel’s day, for the time being. See TS NS 149.43, to which Prof. E. Fleischer drew' my 
attention. Samuel ha-Nagid, see the Dmart, Sasson ed., 103f; Yarden ed., 139—142. On 
the connection between ‘Eli b. ‘Amram, the Fustat haver, and the son of Samuel the 
Nagid, Joseph, see; Mann, Jews, I, 183f; II, 221 f, 459-462 (Mann erred at first in 
identifying Joseph, but afterwards realised that it was the Spanish Nagid who was being 
referred to); Texts, I, 386, n. 2; in the letter ENA 3765, f. 8 (Mann, ibid., 460f) it is implied 
that Joseph received ‘the proper name and titles called and applied by our Lord Daniel’; cf 
Ashtor, Qorot, II, 82f; Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 525, n. 13, where the conclusion 
is that it was Daniel b. Azariah who granted Joseph the title Nagid, and on the same page 
there are further references. Moses ibn Ezra wrote, some eighty years later, on the link 
between Samuel ha-Nagid the Spaniard and ‘the leaders of Babylonia and the scholars of 
Palestine’, see al-Muhddara, 62. Nathan the money-changer: 386. ‘Eli b. Ezekiel on 
Semah: 441, see also 443, b, Daniel on him: 374, line 10.1 have already discussed above the 
matter of the Maghribis entitled haver, see in particular: 519. 


733 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


which speaks of ‘our honourable R. Samuel he-haver ha-me‘ulle, who 
may be Samuel ha-Kohen b. Avtalyon of Fustat, certainly a very old man 
by this time, or perhaps Samuel b. Moses of Tyre. The Gaon mentions in 
the note that he has refrained from going to the synagogue for two days 
because someone was demanding a certain rank which he opposed. From 
another letter, we learn that ‘Eli b. ‘Amram was at a certain stage appar¬ 
ently tired of the tension and assaults on him, and resigned from his 
position. In a fragment remaining from this letter, it appears that Daniel is 
requesting the addressee to intervene in the division. Daniel’s frank letter 
to ‘Eli b. ‘Amram is particularly interesting — it is a supportive letter in 
which he tries to appease him and promises that he will stand behind him, 
in terms of affection and respect. He recalls the support he has received 
from ‘Eli and pledges to repay him for this in full. Also, the time would 
come when those who had been insolent towards him would be called to 
account. 

We have seen in the discussion on the relationship between Daniel and 
Abraham b. Isaac ibn Furat that the latter was considered a figure of the 
greatest importance in Fustat and that in fact, Daniel asked the Fustat 
haver, ‘Eli b. ‘Amram, to obey him. Evidently this was also a source of 
‘Eli’s bitterness. Owing to the scarcity of information at this point, we 
cannot say anything precise about ‘Eli’s character but it seems that he 
knew how to defend his position in a restrained and almost diplomatic 
manner. We find a short letter he wrote to Abraham ha-Kohen, in which 
after some flowery opening phrases, as was common among learned and 
honourable men (‘Abraham, prince of the congregation .. . son of his 
great honourable Sanctity, our Lord and Master Perat, like Porat’) he 
writes that he regrets that he cannot accept the invitation to visit him, 
because he cannot be absent from his shop ( dukkan ). The letter mentions 
‘the synagogue of our Lord, the light of Israel, Daniel the great nast and 
head of the yeshiva Ge‘on Ya‘aqov’. 166 

166 The letter of condolence: 362. In 356, b, margin, Daniel writes about a house that had 
belonged to Semah, a matter connected with the old sister of Abu Kathlr, who is perhaps 
Ephraim b. Shemaria (whose kunya it was). We also find in this letter details on the ritual 
slaughtering in Fustat, from which one can sense Daniel’s determined attitude in such 
matters, see b, lines 19ff. The meeting in al-Damsisl’s house: 399. The note: 364; cf. 
Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 511, sec. 5. ‘Eli b. ‘Amram resigns: 366. Goitein, 
Shalem, 2(1975/6), 63 ( = ha-Yishuv, 149) interpreted the account as speaking unfavour¬ 
ably of‘Eli, concluding that he failed in his office as leader of the congregation, and that he 
was among the harshest opponents of Daniel; my own interpretation is otherwise, as can 
be seen above. The letter of support: 368; see also the beginning of a letter to ‘Eli b, 
‘Amram, 369, where some dispute is implied and there are condolences on someone’s 
death. The letter of‘Eli to Abraham ha-Kohen: TS 13 J 31, f. 5, cf. Goitein, Shalem , 2 
(1975/6), 64 ( = ha-Yishuv, 93, nn. 18, 19, 157, n. 84), who assumed that an uncle of 
Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn Furat was intended there, but abandoned this idea; 
indeed, it was only natural to call Abraham in a shortened fashion: Ben Perat or Ibn Furat. 


734 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS, 849-901] 

[894] The main focus of the division in Fustat at this time, seems to have 
been Yefet b. David, of whom I have already spoken in some detail. He 
evidently headed a sort of rebellion against ‘Eli b. ‘Amram, and as a result, 
Daniel empowered ‘Eli to proclaim the excommunication of Yefet, and 
even tried to convince ‘Eli that he should not hesitate to do so. Daniel also 
wrote harsh things about ‘Eli b. ‘Amram’s other rivals. Nevertheless, we 
have seen that Yefet succeeded in obtaining part of the income from 
slaughtering in Fustat, with the help of Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn 
Furat, who approached the Gaon on this matter. 

Apart from these stormy instances, Daniel b. Azariah’s letters to ‘Eli b. 
‘Amram generally deal with routine matters. There is no doubt that their 
relationship differered from that of Daniel b. Azariah with Abraham 
ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn Furat. This is displayed even in the fact that while all 
of Daniel b. Azariah’s letters to the latter are in his own handwriting, the 
letters to ‘Eli b. ‘Amram (with the exception of two) are written by the 
scribe of the yeshiva, Semah b. Eleazar. We find a letter in which he asks 
‘Eli to try to help to collect funds for someone from a family of geonim 
(the name is not preserved), who was forced to come to Egypt (evidently 
from Palestine) because of the harsh poverty and certain ‘heart-breaking’ 
matters. In another letter, ‘Eli is asked to help Marwan b. Suqayr to obtain 
money owed him by a certain Joseph b. Jacob, because this Marwan is 
about to arrive in Fustat from Palestine. The link between ‘Eli b. ‘Amram 
and the Gaon seems therefore to have been a working relationship, con¬ 
cerned with everyday affairs. ‘Eli b. ‘Amram was the representative of the 
Fustat community towards the Gaon, and vice versa - the Gaon’s repre¬ 
sentative towards the community. The affair of a tarima built by some 
unknown person is characteristic, and the problem involved is not clear, as 
I have already mentioned. This person had written a letter to the Gaon in 
which he answered all the claims against him, but he seems to have given 
the letter to ‘Eli b. ‘Amram first of all, out of a sense of loyalty, in order 
that ‘Eli should know what is being discussed, but ‘Eli kept the letter and 
worded it anew, which angered the owner of the tarima , who subsequently 
wrote to the Gaon. 167 

167 The matter of the excommunication: 342, 370, 371; additional data on the affairs of Yefet 
are to be found in the letters: 355-358; 342 opens with florid phrases of friendship to the 
addressee, who is evidently ‘Eli b. ‘Amram; afterwards he goes over to Yefet b. David’s 
affairs: ‘the damnable actions of b. Shekhaniah’. Daniel notes that he wrote a letter to the 
community, in which he censured these actions and even announced a ban on him and the 
prohibition on eating the meat of his slaughtering. Goitein, ha-Yishuv , 182, 183, 187, 
attributes the quarrels on slaughtering to Mansur, Yefet’s brother, basing this mainly on 
319, line 15, where Yefet b. David was warned not to involve his brother in the 
slaughtering affairs; but we find that Yefet is constantly in charge of the slaughtering and 
the affair of the excommunication and the sharp quarrel was apparently merely a passing 
episode, explained by his bad relations with ‘Eli b. ‘Amram; and perhaps there were 


735 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

[895] Money from the slaughtering in Fustat due to the Palestinian 
yeshiva is mentioned in another letter to ‘Eli b. ‘Amram. He is asked to 
give a certain emissary of the Gaon, a certain b. Moses, ‘all that was 
collected in the market from the beginning of Elul until the end of Kislev, 
such is the account’. Evidently the dire straits drove Daniel to send another 
emissary to Fustat, on this occasion the veteran parnas ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. 
Ezekiel. According to the Gaon in his letter to ‘Eli b. ‘Amram, this mission 
was successful. A letter arrived from ‘Eli ha-Kohen, giving details of the 
help promised by the people of Fustat, ‘a righteous act which our honour¬ 
able he-haver ha-me‘ulle has done to us and the elders ofjerusalem, telling 
that [our] letter was read out [publicly] and also of his recommendation’. 

Apparently, ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel and ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim, 
who was evidently a family relative in Fustat, were a kind of advisers and 
mediators on behalf of Daniel b. Azariah in matters concerning the 


financial matters and accounts with the yeshiva as well, on which we have insufficient 
data. The matter of the help: 372. Marwan: 373; on him and his father, we do have 
information: his father Suqayr (diminutive of Saqar, or Saqar) received a ceremonial robe 
(khal'a), was led mounted on a mule through the streets as a sign of honour, received large 
grants, and was appointed physician to the caliph al-Hakim instead of the Christian Ibn 
Nastas, who died in Rabf II 400, December 1009; see Maqrlzl, Itti'dz, II, 73, 83; in 
Mughrib, V, 62, he is called Shuqayr al-Yahudl; al-Hakim bought him a house that cost 
4,000 dinars, equipped with the best of furnishings and housewares; he would receive 
10,000 dinars for one hour, money which al-Hakim confiscated from the Christians (all of 
which should be taken with a degree of scepticism, naturally). Marwan himself is 
mentioned in a colophon in MS Firkovitch II, No. 1283, see: Kahle, Masoreten des Westens, 
I, 70: ‘This mahzor was bought, containing the last four books ... by the elder Marwan 
... son of Suqayr ... in the city ofjerusalem ... in the year 4818’, that is AD 1058 (i.e., 
during Daniel b. Azariah’s day); his two sons are mentioned: David and Solomon. The 
tdriina: 397. The matter of queries sent from Fustat (Nehorai b. Nissim) to Daniel b. 
Azariah (sec. 892) is again repeated in 468a. It appears that Daniel b. Azariah, whom we 
found so occupied in Tishri, is still as busy in Tammuz. For general information on what 
was happening in Jerusalem towards the end of the life of‘the Nasi and Gaon’ (ibid.), one 
should add what is contained in 449a. This letter was written close to 1060, and is 
preserved in a very poor state. One cannot discern with any certitude the nature of the 
dispute described there. The writer is evidently in Alexandria and he is writing to a 
Jerusalemite who is visiting Fustat together with his family. The writer would stay with 
this family during his visits to Jerusalem and he intends doing so in the future. The main 
subj ect of the letter is a certain Surur ibn Sabra, who slanders the writer and other notables 
of Fustat in every possible manner. This Surur ibn Sabra is a Maghribi by origin and the 
writer accuses him of converting to Islam when he was still in the Maghrib. The writer 
and his faction are about to appeal to the av-bet-din in Jerusalem (Elijah ha-Kohen b. 
Solomon?) and demand that he is banned. The Gaon is not mentioned in the letter at all, 
and perhaps this is a confirmation of what is said in the Scroll of Abiathar about Daniel’s 
illness during the last years of his life. There is additional information concerning the 
relationship between Daniel b. Azariah and the people of Fustat, particularly ‘Eli b. 
‘Amram, in 377a. It deals with a court case concerning the collection of a debt, mention¬ 
ing a certain b. Mukhtar, who is evidently Sedaqa b. Muvhar ( = Mukhtar), noted a 
number of times in my collection. He seems to have been a financier from Tyre, who 
moved to Fustat, who had special ties with Daniel b. Azariah (see also infra, secs. 903, 
905). 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901J 

community in Fustat. These two parnasim carried on a constant 
correspondence and one can see that they tried to do their best to maintain 
proper order and peace in Fustat. During the late fifties, a quarrel arose in 
Fustat between two haverfm: Abu Zikrf Judah he-haver b. Saadia (after¬ 
wards known by the title Nagid) and Joshua he-haver b. Dosa. A rec¬ 
onciliation was achieved through the efforts of‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim, 
when Daniel b. Azariah was also staying in Fustat. ‘Eli ha-Koen b. Ezekiel 
writes of the joy the people ofjerusalem felt about this peaceful outcome, 
and also that ‘the nasV (Daniel b. Azariah) was extremely happy. We also 
find Daniel directly approaching ‘Eli, the parnas of Fustat, referring 
undoubtedly to the above-mentioned ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim, concern¬ 
ing aid for a poor man, Wahb of the city of Raqqa. 168 

[896] Some of Daniel b. Azariah’s writings in the field of law have been 
preserved. His interest in the writings of the early geonim can be discerned 
from one of his letters to ‘Eli b. Amram, from which it emerges that he 
sent quires of the queries and responsa of several geonim to Fustat. From 
these geonim only the name of ‘Rabbenu Samuel Gaon’ remains, who we 
may assume was Samuel ha-Kohen b. Hofni, head of the Sura yeshiva, the 
grandfather of Daniel’s brother-in-law Azariah (his sister’s husband). The 
reason for sending them to Fustat was to have them copied there. It seems 
that Daniel had borrowed them from one of that priestly family, perhaps 
from his sister’s son Josiah ha-Kohen (the great-grandson of Samuel b. 
Hofni). We have already seen that the people ofFustat-as we know from 
the instance of Nehorai b. Nissim - were directing queries to Daniel on 
matters of law and were anticipating his responsa. We find Abu Sa’djosiah 
ha-Kohen, the Gaon’s nephew, and his son-in-law Abu Sari Barhun, 
occupied with a legacy of books he had bequeathed. There was a com¬ 
plaint that the tractate Bava qamma was missing, but they found the Gaon’s 
tadhkira, a sort of diary, where it was written that the missing book was in 
Jerusalem, with Israel b. Nathan. In addition, we find instructions to ‘Eli 
b. ‘Amram on matters of law; outlining how to summon people to court, 
as I have mentioned above. I have also noted the shimmush which Daniel 
wrote on the matter of Hayyim b. Harun of Sahrajt and the vow made by 
this Hayyim, to pay a fine should it be found that he had a wife in Fustat 
before marrying another. In my collection, there are ten documents which 
are remains of Daniel’s responsa and deeds written in his court. There are 
four queries and one responsum copied by the Gaon in his own hand¬ 
writing, and it is not clear whether they are the work of one of his 
W8 '{"} le money from slaughtering: 374. The mission of‘Eli ha-Kohen: 376; mentioned ibid, is 
also the matter of a deserted wife, but no details have been preserved. ‘Eli b. Ezekiel on 
peace in Fustat: 440, 443. Help for Wahb: 385; see also 382, a fragment from the opening 
of a letter, evidently also to Fustat, in which thanks for a gift have been preserved, and a 
beginning of expressions of anxiety over an unclear subject. 


737 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


forefathers or whether they are his own. One query deals with the guard¬ 
ing of an orphan’s inheritance, and the responsum is also preserved. 
Further, there are queries about the promise of money without a written 
deed; about a man who cast aspersions on his wife and about how to treat 
her son; on a vow to dedicate property to the heqdesh and whether the 
responsibility to carry it out applies to the heirs. Deeds and fragments of 
deeds drawn up in his court have also been preserved. As I have already 
noted, these deeds were formulated according to the Babylonian tradition 
and generally conformed to the formulary of Hayy Gaon’s Book of 
Deeds. In one of his letters, Daniel sharply criticises a responsum on a 
matter of law, and expresses disdain for its author; perhaps a Babylonian 
Gaon, the Gaon of Pumbedita, whose identity we do not know (Israel, 
according to Mann), or Hezekiah, the exilarch b. David. 

The Scroll of Abiathar notes the date of Daniel’s death, Elul 1373 Sel., 
August 1062. His funeral is mentioned in one of the letters of Avon b. 
Sedaqa, the Maghribi merchant who lived in Jerusalem, to Nehorai b. 
Nissim, dated 11 October 1064. A record of evidence in a court in 
Alexandria, from 14 May 1079, speaks of two men upon whom Daniel b. 
Azariah had placed a ban, for some reason unknown to us, and says that 
they cursed ‘our Master Daniel the /htsf head of the yeshiva Ge’on Ya‘aqov, 
of blessed, holy [qadosh] and pure memory’. Are we to understand from 
this formula ( qadosh ) that he was murdered? This possibility is hinted at in 
a passage in a letter written by Daniel b. Hasdai, the Baghdadi exilarch, in 
the year AM 4922 (AD 1161). According to him, there was an interruption 
in the chain of ordination after the death of ‘our Master our nasi Daniel 
head of the yeshiva Ge’on Ya‘aqov of blessed holy ( qadosh ) memory’. 
However, we do not know whether those generations were in the habit of 
using the term ‘holy’ for someone who was murdered by the gentiles. The 
passage in a dirge written on his death ‘alas for he ailed and was exiled’, is 
also unexplained. As to his illness, we do not know its nature, just as we do 
not know how to understand the passage in the Scroll of Abiathar quoted 
above, regarding the sickness from which he suffered during the last four 
years of his life. As to exile, it seems that he apparently had to leave 
Jerusalem for some unknown reason, although from Avon b. Sedaqa’s 
letter, we are aware that he was buried injerusalem. 

Daniel b. Azariah was Gaon for nearly ten years. He encompassed in his 
personality two ideals that were close to the hearts of the Jewish masses: 
the heritage of the Palestinian Sanhedrin with that of the legend of the 
House of David, from which the exilarchs claimed descent. He was the 
first protagonist of a new kind of division among the Jews, between the 
House of David and the House of Aaron, as exemplified by the propa¬ 
ganda he used during the dispute over the office of the Gaon against Joseph 


738 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 


ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon. Although relative calm reigned after 
Daniel’s victory, the division was likely to break out with even greater 
vigour, and this time, in utter opposition to the idea of the Palestinian 
Sanhedrin, when Daniel’s son David, reached maturity. Today, it is rather 
difficult to grasp the significance of the antagonism between the two 
Houses, and it seems somewhat trivial to us, but the writings of the period 
prove to what extent people’s feelings were divided and how great were 
the storms aroused by this antagonism. 169 


The priestly geonirn: Joseph, Elijah and Abiathar, the yeshiva in exile 

[897] Joseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon did not last long after the victory 
of his rival. He died about a year and a half after the end of the dispute, on 
Hanukkah, that is, in mid-December 1053, after he was obliged to be 
content with the role of av-het-dln under Daniel b. Azariah. The Scroll of 
Abiathar, which provides us with these details, calls the two brothers 
Joseph and Elijah, ‘Joseph ha-Kohen and Elijah ha-Kohen, two geonirn’. 
These were only words used for their effect, and it is clear that Joseph 
ha-Kohen never rose to the seat of Gaon at all. The writer of the Scroll 
drops rather broad hints to the effect that Joseph’s death was caused by 
Daniel b. Azariah, both because he was excluded from the gaonate and 
because of the suffering and persecution he endured as a consequence of 
the dispute. Towards the end of his life, Joseph sought revenge: ‘The Lord 
will see and judge’, and therefore the illness of Daniel b. Azariah described 
there in the continuation was - it implies - a sort of punishment from 
heaven. There is no doubt that the priestly family saw it as such and there 

169 Quires of responsa: 371. Queries to Daniel from Fustat: 469. Daniel’s books: 500, a, 
margin, right. A summons to court: 375. Hayyim b. Hartin: 389, cf. Friedman, Tarbiz, 43 
(1973/4), 176; Goitein, Mediterranean Society, III, 148. Daniel’s responsa and legal deeds: 
387-396. On the Babylonian character of the deeds, see: Assaf, Tarbiz, 9(1937/8), 17. The 
criticism of a responsum: 356, b, lines 24£f, margin; Goitein, Shalem, 2(1975/6), 68 
(= ha-Yishuv, 148), who ascribed this letter toZakkai, Daniel’s brother, assumed that the 
criticism was aimed at ‘Eli b. ‘Amram, but this does not seem likely. Cf. on the matter of 
the Babylonian geonirn during the fifties: Mann, Texts, I, 202ff To the deeds from 
Daniel’s court, one should add the deed of release of a slave-girl edited by Blau, Die 
jiidische Ehescheidung, 102 (No. 11): in Jerusalem, on Friday, 28 Tishri 1369 Sel., 
29 September AD 1057, Abraham b. R. Isaac, nicknamed ‘the cousin’ releases the 
slave-girl Zara’if. Signed by the scribe Semalj b. Eleazar, the witness being ‘Daniel 
ha-NasI head of the yeshiva Ge'on Ya‘aqov’. The reading and the date in Blau’s version 
should be corrected. The ‘cousin’ there is none other than Abraham b. Isaac ibn Furat, 
whose nickname was ibn al-‘amm in Arabic; we have here evidence that he visited 
Jerusalem in that year, 1057; he certainly made a pilgrimage in Tishri; the editor could not 
identify him, of course, nor could Poznansksi, REJ , 65 (1913), 45. The death of Daniel: 
559, b, line 15. Avon’s letter: 500, a, lines 7-8. The passage of Daniel b. Hasdai: Assaf, 
Tarbiz, 1 (3;1929/30), 69. Cf. Mann, Texts, 1, 230f. The dirge: Assaf, Zlotnik Jubilee 
Volume, 166f. 


739 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

was blazing hatred between the two sides, despite the fact that they had to 
settle their differences with one another and even work together. 

A letter of condolence has been preserved, written by Daniel b. Azariah 
upon the death of ‘his honourable great Sanctity, our Lord and Master 
Joseph ha-Kohen av-bet-dm of all Israel’. It was apparently sent to members 
of the latter’s family, that is from Jerusalem to Ramla, evidently, or 
perhaps Daniel was staying in Fustat and wrote to them from there. He 
points out that it was he who eulogised the deceased. Evidently the letter 
quoted a passage (only preserved in part) from the Babylonian Talmud 
(Mo‘ed qatan, 25a): ‘whoever weeps and mourns over a proper man will 
be forgiven all his transgressions for the honour paid him’ (i.e., to the 
deceased). Although these are expressions of courtesy, they seem to imply 
a very slight admission of guilt. 

We do not know much aboutjoseph ha-Kohen. For many years, he was 
active together with Solomon b. Judah and his son Abraham, for they 
were related and worked jointly on matters of the yeshiva. There is a letter 
from Solomon b. Judah remaining in the Geniza, written on behalf of the 
Gaon injoseph’s handwriting. He was taken to jail in Damascus together 
with his brother Elijah as a consequence of the episode of the excommuni¬ 
cation of the Karaites described above. I have also surveyed his special 
connections with Ephraim b. Shemaria. At times, Joseph would use the 
‘alama which was characteristic of his father - yesha‘ yuhash. It seems that 
he was an extremist both by nature and in his aspirations and it was he who 
banished the cantor ‘Solomon who is called Sabiq’, as I described earlier. 
Evidently, Solomon b. Judah suffered immensely from Joseph’s fan¬ 
aticism and contentiousness and he writes about this in one of his letters, 
written apparently near the end of his life. Joseph ha-Kohen was then 
av-bet-din, and according to the Gaon, he automatically rejected his 
opinions. One can feel the Gaon’s marked reservation regarding Joseph’s 
character and he seems to be trying to explain to the addressee the reasons 
for his aversion to Joseph. It seems then that Solomon b. Judah had a hand 
in creating the conditions which led to Joseph ha-Kohen being deprived of 
the longed-for status of head of the yeshiva, mainly, it seems, by drawing 
Daniel b. Azariah nearer, and perhaps by preparing the ground among the 
people for his advancement. On the other hand, he expresses a very 
positive opinion of the younger brother, Elijah ha-Kohen, who, he says, 
does not follow in his elder brother’s footsteps. 

In the affair of Nathan b. Abraham, Joseph ha-Kohen also played a 
major role and added fuel to the fire by his fanaticism. This was also 
connected, evidently, to his uncompromising attitude to the Karaites, and 
we have seen how he initiated the pronouncement of a twofold excom¬ 
munication on them, on the last two days of Succoth, both on the matter 


740 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

of the holidays and on the matter of meat and milk. ‘Eli ha-mumhe b. 
Abraham wrote to Ephraim b. Shemaria in ca. 1045 about a personal 
matter concerning Joseph ha-Kohen. Joseph was staying in Jerusalem 
continuously, because the ruin he had bought near his house in Ramla was 
being renovated. 

When he was still av-bet-dln, in Daniel b. Azariah’s day, he seems to have 
maintained personal contact with the people of Fustat. A letter of the 
emissary of the yeshiva appears to be evidence of this, as it contains a most 
depressing account of what is going on among the ‘Palestinian’ congrega¬ 
tion in Fustat and the dispute there. It seems that the mission of the writer 
was to a large extent a mission of the priestly family and not necessarily 
that of the yeshiva or the head of the yeshiva, Daniel b. Azariah. 

After the death of Joseph ha-Kohen, Israel b. Nathan, in a letter from 
Tyre to Nehorai b. Nissim, mentions quires left by the deceased. The 
writer met with Elijah ha-Kohen, Joseph’s brother, and discussed the 
matter with him. It transpires that the sons of the deceased wanted to sell 
the quires. There is a fragment in the Geniza in his handwriting, of what 
seems to be his commentary to the tractate Ketubbot (17b), in which he 
deals with the chapter on the woman who became a widow. 

We have information on Joseph ha-Kohen’s son, Abu’l-Bayan Solo¬ 
mon, who emigrated to Egypt in about the year 1060, some seven years 
after the death of his father. ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel enquires after him 
and asks whether he is still in Alexandria or whether he has already arrived 
in Fustat. Afterwards, ‘Eli writes that in the meantime he has learned of his 
safe arrival in Fustat, and that the haver Abu Zikri, who is Judah b. Saadia, 
afterwards called the Nagid, is looking after him, as I have already men¬ 
tioned. Another Jerusalemite, the Maghribi Israel b. Nathan, was also 
interested in learning at the time whether it was true that Solomon b. 
Joseph bet-din had married. 170 

[898] A few facts about Elijah ha-Kohen Gaon can be found in the Scroll 

170 The Scroll of Abiathar: 559, b, lines 8-12; his brother, Elijah ha-Kohen, did not try to 
describe Joseph after his death, as if he had been Gaon; in his letter to a trustee of the 
yeshiva (whose name and place we do not know), he speaks of a certain person who has 
something in writing from ‘our Master Joseph av (bet-din) our brother, of blessed 
memory’, see 419. The letter of condolence: 384. The letter written by Joseph for 
Solomon b. Judah: 173; he also wrote 405, on behalf of the Jerusalemites, on the subject of 
aid for the poor of Jerusalem, to Ephraim b. Shemaria; also 406-411 are letters in his 
handwriting, and they all deal with public affairs and matters concerning the court. 
Document 410a is a fragment of the ending of a letter written by Joseph ha-Kohen b. 
Solomon Gaon when he was already av-bet-diti in the yeshiva, at the beginning of 1048, 
still during the gaonate of Solomon b. Judah. As in two other letters (411, 420), we also 
find here ornate phrases based on verses in the Bible. Yesha‘ yuhash, see 407, b. The 
excommunication of the cantor: 334. Solomon b. Judah on Joseph: 149. There is also an 
apologetic tone here and the Gaon points out that he is grateful to Joseph’s father, 
Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon. In another letter, much earlier than this, Solomon b. Judah 


741 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


of Abiathar. After the death of his brother Joseph, he became av-het-dln of 
the Palestinian yeshiva, until the death of Daniel b. Azariah. According to 
the Scroll, the period of his gaonate lasted for twenty-three years. Ac¬ 
tually, Elijah served for twenty-one years and three months: from August 
1062 until November 1083, but in his Scroll, Abiathar reckoned from Elul 
AM 4822, until Kislev AM 4843, and as was customary in those early 
times, he added the marginal years as well. Abiathar completely overlooks 
those years in which the yeshiva was still located in Jerusalem, when his 
father Elijah was Gaon (before it moved to Tyre). Some documents 
preserved in the Geniza round out our information on Elijah ha-Kohen. In 
my collection, there are eleven documents in his handwriting, and he is 
mentioned frequently in the letters of his contemporaries. 

In a deed written when he was in Damascus, on 5 May 1031, he signed: 
Elijah ha-Kohen he-haver in the Great Sanhedrin’, etc. He apparently 
stayed there after he and his brother were released from jail, after having 
been involved in the affair of the excommunication of the Karaites. In a 
deed written by Solomon b. Judah, on 31 October 1036, Elijah is men¬ 
tioned when he was already ‘the sixth of the havura’. We have already seen 
that during the dispute with Nathan b. Abraham, he was ‘fifth’, as was 
also laid down in the conditions of the agreement after the dispute. 

After the death of Tobiah b. Daniel, Elijah became ‘the fourth’, and after 
Nathan b. Abraham’s demise, ‘the third’. We have found one ofhis letters 
from that time, written to the exilarch David b. Hezekiah. Ephraim b. 
Shemaria’s letter, written near the end ofhis life in ca. 1055, when Elijah 
was av-bet-dln, is of particular interest. During this period, he also wrote a 
letter to Abu Sa‘d Halfon b. Solomon (whose father, Solomon b. Nathan, 
was one of Nathan b. Abraham’s supporters), in which he describes the 
rumour that Abraham b. Isaac ha-Talmld took a second wife in Ascalon. 
On the face of it, it is an innocent letter, in which he disengages himself 
from the rumours that were spread about, but one should note that Halfon 
b. Solomon (or perhaps his father) and also Abraham b. ha-Talmid 


expresses a critical opinion of the two priestly brothers: they are only prepared to make an 
effort when there is something they could gain from it (hence they do not come to 
Ramla). See 80, a, lines 8-9. Joseph and the ban on the Karaites: 182. Restoration of the 
ruin: 231. Letter of the emissary: 398. Israel b. Nathan’s letter: 475. The fragment of the 
commentary: TS Arabic Box 18(1), f. 58; where there is a sentence also used by Hayy 
Gaon in his book ‘of purchases and sales’, endofch. xxxviii. The letters of‘Eli ha-Kohen: 
450, line 15; 451, a, lines 2ff; in 452, a, line 8, ‘Eli ha-Kohen sends regards to Solomon 
ha-Kohen b. Joseph and asks what is happening to him. Israel b. Nathan: 479, b, line 12. 
On Passover of the year AM 4819, AD 1059, Solomon was still in Ramla, see the letter of 
Avon b. Sedaqa, 498, a, lines 11-12. It seems that he visited Palestine in 1065, when he 
signed a deed drawn up in the court of the yeshiva: 425, line 18. TS NS J 379 is a fragment 
of a deed relating to‘Eli (*Ula) ha-Levi b. Joseph, with the signature, ‘Solomon ha-Kohen 
b. Joseph av great-grandson of Solomfon Gaon]’. 


742 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

belonged to the faction opposing the priestly family and were partisans of 
their rivals, at first of Nathan b. Abraham and afterwards of David b. 
Daniel, as we shall observe in the continuation. 

When he became Gaon after the death of Daniel b. Azariah, Elijah 
evidently managed to establish good relations with the Maghribis, who 
stood by Daniel b. Azariah during the dispute over the gaonate, and 
afterwards supported Daniel’s son David in his struggle against the 
priestly family. Avon b. Sedaqa describes in one of his letters a visit with 
the Gaon in October 1064. Avon reminded him that Nehorai b. Nissim (to 
whom he writes) was fond of him even before he became av-bet-din. It is 
implied there that the Maghribis exercised their influence with the Fatimid 
authorities and managed to get him a sijill, certainly meaning here an 
official appointment. Elijah thanked him for this, although the sijill had 
not arrived in Jerusalem as yet. At the same meeting, Avon told him about 
the suffering endured by the Maghribi merchants who are being mis¬ 
treated, and especially about the fire which destroyed their ships. Another 
Maghribi merchant, Isma‘11 b. Isaac al-AndalusI, also mentions Elijah 
ha-Kohen Gaon. According to him, the Gaon expressed his dissatisfaction 
with the contacts maintained by Isma‘11 with two members of the Kashkil 
family, Spanish scholars who settled in Acre. 

I have already noted the difference between the two brothers, Joseph 
and Elijah, and we have seen that Solomon b. Judah pointed out that he did 
not find in Elijah those faults of character which he found in his older 
brother. However, the tension and rivalry seem to have hardened Elijah as 
well and he treated his rivals vigorously and harshly. A letter written in his 
name by his son Abiathar in about 1065, warns the Fustat parnas, ‘Eli 
ha-Kohen b. Hayyim, that a certain Shemaria b. Meshullam is about to 
arrive there. It seems that this man offended the priestly family in some 
manner, and the Gaon demands that they make his life a misery - ‘to 
reward him according to his wickedness and to unveil his disgrace’ - and 
also to bring this to the attention of the two brothers, Judah and Mev- 
orakh, sons of Saadia: ‘Judah, the dear haver, rosh kalla, ha-me‘ulle of the 
havura, and his brother, alufha-binot’ (Judah is still not called Nagid here), 
and also ‘to the attention of all our brethren in Egypt’. The last deed 
written by Elijah ha-Kohen Gaon in Jerusalem (to the extent that deeds 
were preserved) dates from the summer of 1071. 171 

171 The Scroll of Abiathar on Elijah ha-Kohen: 559, b, lines 15ff. Documents written by 
Elijah: 412-422. The deed from Damascus: 415; this is a receipt from Khiba’, daughter of 
Abraham al-Hazzam al-Rushtabl, to Solomon b. Musafir; signed by nine witnesses; 
al-Hazzam al-Rushtabl- ‘the rustic packer’ ( rustabl , in Persian, rustic); hazzam, see Dozy, 
s. v., and also Qasimi, I, 96f. Solomon b. Judah’s deed: 124; see also 127, line 18, where 
Elijah is still ‘the sixth’. In one of his letters written when he was still young, which is a 
letter of condolence to his cousin Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac b. Furat on the death of his 
father, Elijah writes around his signature the formula: ‘he-‘asiir mi-pene sha'dn, probably 


743 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

[899] We now turn to the transfer of the yeshiva to Tyre. Above, I have 
described the Turcomans’ conquest of Palestine and their conquest of 
Jerusalem in 1073. We have no exact information about the transfer of the 
yeshiva to Tyre, nor do we know whether this took place before or after 
the conquest ofjerusalem. Apparently, it is not fortuitous that it is to Tyre 
that the yeshiva moved from Jerusalem, Firstly, Tyre was close to the 
border of Palestine. Secondly, it had a large and organised Jewish congre¬ 
gation, which for generations was both attached and subordinate to the 
Palestinian yeshiva. Thirdly, as a port city, it offered possibilities of 
maintaining contact with Jewish communities living in other countries on 
the shores of the Mediterranean, Egypt in particular, when overland 
routes were endangered by warfare. Fourthly, as we have observed, Tyre 
had its own local ruler, from whom one could expect a more tolerant and 
even benevolent approach. We do not know how things really were, as for 
twenty years, before the Turcomans’ conquest and afterward, almost 
nothing was said of these matters in the letters of the yeshiva. We find a 
fragment of a letter written by the Gaon Elijah ha-Kohen, from which 
only a request from the addressee to help the congregation in Ascalon 
could be read, and two fragments from another letter, which speaks of 
‘repairing the house’ and ‘the courtyards of the Lord’s Temple’. Ezekiel 
ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli left for Fustat (like his father, he was frequently on 
journeys on behalf of the yeshiva, and we shall find him on a similar 
mission below, during the gaonate of Abiathar ha-Kohen). He was en¬ 
trusted with the task of explaining the situation of the yeshiva and collect¬ 
ing money due to the Jerusalemites from the income of the heqdesh and 
from donations from people in Fustat. We can only assume that the letters 
were written in Tyre, in about 1080. 

The first hint of the yeshiva’s being situated in Tyre is perhaps a 
fragment from a power-of-attorney deed drawn up in Tripoli. A certain 
Yeshu'a, ‘pride of the congregation’, appoints ‘Ula ha-Levi as trustee. 
Signatories to the deed are Solomon b. Isaac, who calls himself ‘great- 
grandson ofMeir Gaon’; Nahum b. Yannai, of the Baradanl family (who 
lived in Tyre, as we have seen), and a further six witnesses. The deed was 

meaning: ‘who avoids uproar’: 414, and see also the note there. The letter to David b. 
Ezekiel: 416. To Ephraim b. Shemaria: 418, of which I have already quoted the main 
points above. Avon’s letter: 500, a, lines 18ff. Isma'il b. Isaac: 511, upper margin. The 
matter of Abraham b. ha-Talmld: 421, an episode already mentioned above. On Elijah 
ha-Kohen’s visit to Ascalon, when he is already Gaon, we learn from TS Box Misc. 27, f. 
23, see: Friedman, Gral< College Annual, 1 (1972), 58 f; this is a court deed from Fustat (15 
December 1094) concerning ‘Eli b. Yefet who had bought a Nubian slave-girl in Ascalon 
at one time, set her free, married her and had a daughter by this marriage; the muqaddam 
(the appointee over the community) in Ascalon and Elijah ha-Kohen, head of the yeshiva 
Ge’on Ya'aqov, who was then staying in Ascalon, dealt with the matter of this marriage. 
The matter of Shemaria b. Mcshullam: 423. The deed from 1071: 428. Of much interest is 


744 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

written on Monday, 9 Sivan AM 4839, that is 13 May AD 1079. We find a 
more explicit confirmation in a marriage deed written in Tyre on Thurs¬ 
day, 7 Elul AM 4839, that is 8 August AD 1079. Halfon b. Aaron marries 
Ghaliya, daughter of Musafir. Among the signatories, we find ‘Amram 
ha-Kohen b. Aaron, the son-in-law of Abiathar, son of the Gaon. At about 
the same time, another marriage deed was written by ‘Amram ha-Kohen 
himself, from which a fragment has been preserved. We find that a third of 
a new house in the western part of Tyre (evidently in the vicinity of the 
port) was included in the bride’s dowry. 

Two years before his death in AM 4842 (AD 1081) Elijah ha-Kohen 
organised a large assembly of community representatives (‘all Israel’) in 
Tyre, on Succoth. This was in line with the tradition of assembling on the 
Mount of Olives on Hosha’na rabba, which that year fell on 28 September. 
The rulers of Tyre at the time were Nafis and his brother, the sons of the 
cadi Ibn Abi ‘Aqll. They may have succeeded in maintaining a position of 
neutrality towards the two opponents, the Fatimids and the Turcomans. 
At any rate, it seems that people from communities in the various regions 
were able to reach the assembly despite the fighting. It was at this gather¬ 
ing that Elijah ha-Kohen proclaimed Abiathar as his successor as Gaon; 
Abiathar’s brother Solomon ha-Kohen, was appointed av-bet-dm on the 
same occasion, and Zadok b. Josiah, the ‘third’ in the yeshiva. It was said 
ofjosiah (b. Aaron b. Josiah b. Abraham), the father of Zadok, that he had 
been av-bet-dm, probably under Elijah ha-Kohen. Be that as it may, the 
members of this family were not the offspring ofjosiah Gaon b. Aaron. 
Abiathar points out in his scroll that this was the accepted and normal 
advancement, for he had served as av-bet-dm before this, his brother 
Solomon was the ‘third’, and Zadok was the ‘fourth’. The pronouncement 
of these appointments is confirmed in a letter from Saadia he-haver b. 
Abraham, of Hebron, to Abiathar. He calls Abiathar ‘head of the yeshiva 
Ge’on Ya'aqov’ (when his father, Elijah Gaon, was still alive), and ex¬ 
presses his happiness on the fact that ‘our Lord the Gaon, may God 
preserve him’ was lucky to live long enough ‘to see his son occupying his 
seat’; they ‘pray for Abiathar every day in the Cave of Machpelah’, and on 
the Day of Atonement they did this even before they received confir¬ 
mation of his appointment. The writer learned of the appointment from a 
letter he received from Abiathar himself, who had sent it to him together 
with a gift of one dinar (evidently it was the custom to allocate money to 
the Hebronites). Abiathar himself was then in Fustat, it seems, and thus 
the letter reached the Geniza. The letter itself does not make the impres¬ 
sion of having been written in Tyre. 

the very special formula used by Elijah Gaon in his signature (and also by his offspring), 

‘called the Gaon of God’; see the discussion on it: Friedman, Marriage, II, 153ff. 


745 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


One year later, probably again on Hosha'na rabba, that is, 18 September 
1082, an event occurred which made a tremendous impression at the time. 
This was an assembly on actual Palestinian soil, in Haifa. There the year 
was ‘sanctified’ and the gaonate and the ordination renewed, ‘in the house 
of the congregation’ (bet ha-wa'ad, by which the local synagogue was 
meant, apparently). The little that Abiathar tells us of this gathering is 
enough for us to understand its real intention - to alert the Jewish congre¬ 
gations against the seizure of leadership by David b. Daniel b. Azariah. He 
writes of appointments of haverim being ordained by the yeshiva (or the 
Great Sanhedrin, as they called themselves) from among the notables of 
the communities in order that they may serve as judges in their localities. 
We read between the lines that certain suitable figures were appointed, 
whose loyalty to the Palestinian yeshiva and the priestly family were not in 
doubt. This assembly was in fact a familiar ceremony, except that this time 
it was not held on the Mount of Olives but in Haifa. As the yeshiva and its 
head were already under considerable pressure from David b. Daniel’s 
faction, which had by this time achieved a certain foothold in Egypt, it is 
not surprising that Elijah ha-Kohen Gaon pronounced an excommuni¬ 
cation in Haifa ‘on anyone who opposes and differs and on every usurper 
and trespasser’, and it is clear who this was aimed at. The ban was also 
legally entered in ‘a book’, that is, a deed, as were the decisions concerning 
appointments, ‘signed by the hand of all the scholars therein’. In other 
words, all those present signed that deed, or at any rate, the most notable 
among them did so. One should bear in mind that these events occurred 
one year before the death of Elijah ha-Kohen. He died in Kislev 1395 Sel. 
(which began on 14 November AD 1083). 

Direct evidence of one of the participants in the assembly in Haifa can be 
found in a letter-treatise written by Shelah ‘the sixth’ b. Nahum, which 
deals with the question of which coastal towns belong to Palestine, a 
subject which assumed special significance during the struggle with David 
b. Daniel. He writes there, among other things: ‘and I came to Haifa, 
where they also prayed over me [that is, appointed me] as “sixth” ’ m 
[900] Elijah ha-Kohen was buried in Daltun in the Upper Galilee, and 

172 The fragments relating to Tyre: 429, 431; see the details on matters relating to Tyre above, 
secs. 298-300, in the discussion on the city itself, on events there, and on the cadi Ibn Abt 
‘Aqll and his family and connections with the Jewish Maghribi merchants. The deed of 
trusteeship: 604; Solomon b. Isaac great-grandson of Meir Gaon is perhaps the son of 
Isaac he-haver ha-rosh who was listed above with the offspring of Meir Gaon. The 
marriage deed from Tyre: 600. The fragment of a marriage deed: 601; ‘Amram ha-Kohen 
b, Aaron, Abiathar’s son-in-law, was the son of a branch of this priestly family, as can be 
seen from his signature in TS 28.5 (edited by Friedman, Dine Israel , 5[1973/4], 211-216): 
“Amram ha-Kohen b. R. Aaron, may he have a good end, b. R. ‘Amram of blessed 
memory, great-grandson of Elijah ha-Kohen .. . grandson of Aaron the Chief Priest, the 
Saint of God, of blessed memory’. The assembly in Tyre: 559, b, lines 16-19; Josiah and 


746 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

how this was achieved while the Turcomans controlled the entire sur¬ 
rounding area we do not know. Perhaps one of their commanders was 
bribed, or perhaps it was made possible owing to the good relationship 
between the Turcomans and the rulers of Tyre. 

Abiathar inherited his father's seat and saw himself appointed to this 
high office by Divine Providence. As the yeshiva was cut off from the 
source of its vitality and prestige, situated outside of Palestine and no 
longer injerusalem, Abiathar and those around him clung to the principles 
of the ideology of consanguinity, of the vocation of the kohamtn and of the 
centrality of the Sanhedrin in Palestine. This was the focus of their self- 
consciousness. Abiathar refers to himself in his Scroll and also in other 
documents as ‘Abiathar ha-Kohen called by the name of God, son of a 
Gaon great-grandson (thus it should be read) of a Gaon’. 

Abiathar Gaon was one of the four sons of the Gaon Elijah ha-Kohen. 
Apart from Solomon, whom I have already mentioned as having now 
become av-bet-din in the yeshiva, Elijah had two other sons, Zadok and 
Eleazar. A letter from Zadok written injerusalem on28June 1056 has been 
preserved, evidently to his brother Abiathar, who was then staying in 
Fustat, concerning a debt due to their relative Mevorakh for a shipment of 
scented oil. Zadok died in 1094, probably, and a draft of a letter of 
condolence on his death written to his brother, the Gaon Abiathar ha- 
Kohen, by Halfon and Joseph, evidently from Ascalon, has been pre¬ 
served. As to Eleazar, his name is clearly written on the reverse side of a 
Geniza fragment, evidently a commentary to the book of Hosea: ‘Eleazar 
ha-Kohen son of Elijah ha-Kohen of holy blessed memory; his brother 
Abiathar ha-Kohen, called by the name of God, son of a Gaon great- 
grandson of a Gaon, of blessed holy memory’. The aforementioned letter 
from Saadia he-haver of Hebron to Abiathar ha-Kohen, contains ex¬ 
pressions of sympathy on the death of Eleazar, and it is now clear to us that 
he meant this brother. It is also clear, therefore, that he died at about the 

Zadok, his son, evidently lived in Acre earlier on, see 599, line 28. 574 is a letter written by 
Zadok b. Josiah after the Crusaders’ conquest of Palestine, concerning members of the 
family who had been taken captive; from which it is possible to understand that his family 
may have continued to live in Acre, while he himself lived in Tyre; see above, sec. 301. 
Contrary to what was written by Mann, Jews, I, 193f, Zadok never becam aav-bet-dm, and 
what he wrote was based on an error regarding document 568 (ibid., 0, 200f), of which he 
assumed that it was from 1096, whereas actually it was from 1076; as to Abraham b. 
Nathan ‘av of the yeshiva’, he was not av-bet-din, and the title ‘av of the yeshiva’ relates to 
his father, Nathan b. Abraham. The letter from Hebron; 614, a, lines 7ff. The alarm 
caused by David b. Daniel can be seen in the above-mentioned letter (614) of Saadia 
he-haver the Hebronite, to Abiathar, who is in Egypt, in the opening of his letter, where 
he wrote in praise of Abiathar and his priority over someone who is not of priestly 
descent, clearly referring to David b. Daniel, as was also understood by Braslavi, 
Eretz-hraei, 5(1958/9), 221. Shelah b. Nahum: 550, b, line 39, where the reference is 
certainly to this assembly in Haifa. 


747 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

same time as his brother Abiathar was proclaimed Gaon, towards the end 
of 1081. 173 

[901] The first information we have on Abiathar ha-Kohen dates from 
the period when his father was already Gaon. On 16 July 1067, he was in 
Fustat signing his name on a colophon written entirely in his own hand, on 
the first page of a quire containing Hayy Gaon’s commentary to the 
tractate Hagiga, together with the sefer ha-dinin (book of laws) of Rabbenu 
Hananel and with ‘gleanings and queries’ which he copied for himself in 
Fustat. There he calls himself: ‘Abiathar ha-Kohen the fourth of the 
havura’. If we assume that he was then twenty-five years old (this is an 
assumption that has no further foundation than that he was relatively 
young at the time), then he was born in 1042. 

After some three years or more, on 14 November 1070, Abiathar wrote 
a letter from Jerusalem, to the parnas ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim, in which 
he speaks mainly of a man who came from ‘the land of the Franks’ and of 
the affairs ofjudah b. Saadia, ‘the Nagid’. From this letter, it appears that 
Abiathar is still very young and he treats the addressee as if he were his 
father, for he insists that he should not be addressed as ‘your servant’ in his 
letters. He also apologises for having written letters to ‘Eli b. ‘Amram, 
he-haver ha-tne'ulle, and not to the addressee, but these were merely deeds 
of trusteeship. It was his father, the Gaon, who wrote to the congregation 
in Fustat and to the me'ulle. Here too, Abiathar is still calling himself‘the 
fourth’. 

Apparently, at about the same time, Abiathar became his father’s chief 
aide, which was customary - as we have seen - with regard to the eldest 
son of a Gaon. On 15 April 1071, ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, the Jerusalem 
parnas, wrote to Abiathar, ‘the fourth of the havura’. The latter was then 
in Fustat, and from the deed I shall forthwith mention, it emerges that he 
was about to return home. I have already mentioned this letter, which 
contains news of the Turcomans’ invasion of Palestine, the disrupted 

173 The burial of Elijah ha-Kohen: 559, b, lines 23ff; we find here the expression ‘Eleazar b. 
Azariah his ancestor’ (alongside whose grave Elijah was buried), apparently being evi¬ 
dence that this priestly family claimed descent from Eleazar b. Azariah, a matter I have 
already mentioned above. As to the burial of the ancient Jewish sages mentioned in the 
Scroll of Abiathar, there are similar accounts some seventy-five years later in Benjamin of 
Tudela: ‘Meron .. . where there are the graves of Hillel and Shammai .. .; Qedesh 
Naphtali. .. where there are the graves of R. Eliezer b. ‘Arakh and R. Eleazar b. Azariah 
.. . and R. Yose the Galilean’. ‘Abiathar who is called by the name of God’: 559, a, line 1; 
as he also signs in other places. Mann, Jews, I, 187, speaks only of three sons of Elijah 
ha-Kohen: Abiathar, Solomon and Zadok. The letter ofZadok ha-Kohen b. Elijah: 432; it 
seems that he is also mentioned in the colophon: 221, line 9; in both places he calls himself: 
‘the smallest of the pupils in Shalem’ (i.e. Jerusalem). The letter of condolence on the 
death of Zadok ha-Kohen: 554. Eleazar ha-Kohen: ULC Or 1081 Box 1. f. 24; the 
condolences of Saadia he-haver on the death of Eleazar ha-Kohen: 614, b, lines 1-6; see the 
doubts of Braslavi, Eretz-Israel, 5(1958/9), 221. 


748 



THE GEONIM OF PALESTINE [SECS. 849-901] 

roads, the rulers’ mistreatment of the people in Jaffa and the rebellion in 
Tyre. Abiathar is staying in Fustat withjudah the Nagid b. Saadia and his 
brother Mevorakh. ‘Eli asks Abiathar to look into the affairs (in Fustat) of 
his son-in-law Hiba (Nathan) b. Israel (or perhaps he meant his brother- 
in-law, sihr) who abandoned his wife and children in Jerusalem two years 
earlier (that is, in 1069). From this letter we also learn that Abiathar’s kunya 
was Abu’l-Fadl. 

In Jerusalem in Tammuz AM 4831, that is. May or June AD 1071, 
Abiathar is a signatory to a deed referring to a claim of alimony, written by 
his father Elijah Gaon. Alongside his father’s signature, he signed: 
‘Abiathar ha-Kohen son of the Gaon’. There is a similar signature in a 
fragment of a deed evidently written at about the same time, also in the 
handwriting of Elijah Gaon. Abiathar collaborated with his father in 
writing the responsa to the queries of Meshullam b. Moses of Mainz, 
where it is possible to read his signature: ‘Abiathar ha-Kohen the fourth in 
the havura.’ Apparently at the same time, in 1071, he wrote his letter to 
Mevorakh, evidently b. Saadia, that is, the brother ofjudah, who became 
the Nagid on the death of the latter. The letter describes the ill-treatment 
of the owners ofdukkan al-hartr (the silk shop) in Alexandria. We also find a 
colophon in Abiathar’s hand, written on what was the title-page of the 
Talmudic tractate Bava qamma, dated AM 4832, that is AD 1071/2, in 
Jerusalem. It seems that even before the yeshiva moved from Jerusalem, 
Abiathar had risen to the status of‘third in the yeshiva’, as is evidenced by a 
fragment of a court document written in Fustat in which a letter is 
mentioned as having been received from ‘our Master, his great honour, 
our Lord and Master Abiathar the third of the havura’. It speaks of a legacy 
of one of Fustat’s notables who was also a parnas, Abraham ‘known as b. 
al-Zayyat’ (dealer in oil). Thus we learn that Abiathar was in Fustat on a 
mission for the yeshiva during the Turcomans’ invasion and that he 
succeeded in returning to Jerusalem safely, despite the considerable danger 
encountered on the roads. 

In 1077 we again find him in Fustat, where he is a signatory on a court 
document written by Abraham b. Nathan, concerning an inheritance 
which mentions ‘the trustworthy parnas b. Ya‘ish’, who is undoubtedly 
‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim. Apart from ‘Abraham b. R. Nathan av of the 
yeshiva, of blessed righteous memory’, we also find there the signatures of 
Abraham b. R. Isaac of blessed memory (who is ‘b. ha-Talmid’) as well as 
of ‘Abiathar [son of the Gaon great-] grandson of a Gaon of blessed 
memory’. The date is Thursday, 3 Nisan 1388 Sel., 30 March AD 1077. It 
should be noted that the date is a little more than a month after the warding 
off of the Turcomans’ offensive in Egypt (19 February 1077). At about the 
same time that Abiathar was staying in Fustat, Atsiz carried out the 


749 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


massacre in Jerusalem, mentioned earlier. We do not know to what extent 
the Jews of Jerusalem were affected by this, nor do we know whether 
Abiathar reached Fustat via Jerusalem or via Tyre - in other words, we do 
not know where the yeshiva was situated at the time. 174 


The affair of David b. Daniel 

[902] Once again, the Jewish world was shaken by the fury of a dispute 
over its leadership, and this lasted for some fifteen years. This time, it was 
not a dispute over the position of head of the Palestinian yeshiva, but a 
struggle between the yeshiva and a new force, which called for a renewed 
exilarchate, this time with its centre in Egypt. In principle, this struggle 
was made possible by the decline in the status and vitality of the yeshiva, as 
a result of having to leave Jerusalem and thus losing much of its prestige 
and attraction fo r the Jews of the diaspora. Pilgrimages to Jerusalem were 
undoubtedly interrupted and what remained was a mere shadow of its past 
glory. The income of the yeshiva had certainly been considerably reduced. 

174 The colophon: 545. Abiathar’s letter to ‘Eli ha-Kohen: 547 a, lines 13, 31 ff. ‘Eli ha-Kohen 
b. Ezekiel: 455; the deed of alimony: 428; Hiba b. Isra’Il (Nathan b. Israel) is perhaps 
identical with Hiba al-Basrl al-A‘raj who, according to 425, asked to bring his wife 
al-Hasana from Egypt to Rarnla. The other fragment: 427. The responsa to Meshuilam b. 
Moses: BodI MS Heb c 23, f. 42. The matter of Alexandria: 548. The colophon: 549. The 
court document: TS Box K 24, f. 25. Cohen, Self-Government, 162, writes with an 
inexplicable amount of certainty: ‘Doubtless Elijah hoped that Evyatar’s presence in the 
Egyptian capital would make it difficult for the new nagid to subvert the gaonate’ 
(referring to the suspicion that Judah b. Saadia may have intended to compete with the 
Palestinian yeshiva). This has no foundation, however; for we have seen that it was the 
Gaon who granted the title Nagid to the brothers, Saadia’s sons, one after the other; and in 
what follows, we shall realise that there was cooperation and solidarity between them, 
and during the dispute with David b. Daniel, the Gaon and the Nagid even shared the 
same fate, which I shall describe below. The court document from 1077: ULC Or 1080 J 
9, andef. Cohen, ibid., 108,122, 162. A poem written by Abiathar contains expressions of 
longing for Jerusalem, while he was staying in Egypt, first in Fustat, then in Alexandria, 
where he was warmly received by ‘westerners’ who were his faithful followers. It is not 
possible to determine the time of its writing, it may have been written when he was 
already Gaon (this may be the reason why he does not call himself'fourth' or something 
similar, in the signature). The yeshiva was then in Tyre and his yearning forjerusalem is 
therefore understandable; it is also possible that he came to Egypt on behalf of the yeshiva 
at a much earlier stage. The nature of his embroilment in Egypt mentioned in the poem is 
not explained either. See the poem, TS NS 193.32, ed. Fleischer, Zion, 49(1984), 396f. 
Abiathar is also mentioned in a letter from Hayy (?) b. Sa‘ada to Abu Nasr Judah b. ,.. 
ai-Dimashql who was then in the port of Tyre; the writer paid, as requested, nineteen 
dinars which he had from the addressee, fourteen for sayyidna ra’s al-mathiba (head of the 
yeshiva; evidently: Daniel b. Azariah) and five for sayyidna av bet din. The payment was 
made through Abu ‘All Husayn b. Muslim. The writer was asked to welcome ‘al-rayyis 
Abu’l-Fadl, son of our Master av-bet-din’, that is, Abiathar b. Elijah, in Tyre; but times 
were hard and the writer tries to avoid it. This letter: TS 10] 13, f. 21, mentioned also by 
Goitein, Mediterranean Society, I, 268, who assumed that it was written in Ascalon. 


75° 



THE AFFAIR OF DAVID B. DANIEL [SECS. 902-915] 


This was the background to the appearance of a young and vigorous man, 
a descendant of exilarchs, one of the nesT’Tm, bearing the insignia of the 
House of David. 

Most of the information on the outset of David b. Daniel’s route is 
drawn from the Scroll of Abiathar. It begins with the data on his gen¬ 
ealogy, which in fact goes back to the House of David, though to those of 
its bad kings, such as Ahaz and his ilk. He was also related to the family of 
bish na'ar, which is unexplained, but one can assume here that Bustanai 
was perhaps written in the original, a matter which I have discussed. The 
copyist of the Scroll evidently was not acquainted with the story of 
Bustanai and Daniel’s relationship to it. Therefore, he could not decipher 
the name, or there may have been a play on words here which we cannot 
fathom. 

In my collection there is a letter from David b. Daniel to some un¬ 
identified personality in Fustat, which sheds light on the chronological 
aspect of David’s history. In this letter, he announces that he is about to 
arrive in Fustat ‘to renew the alliance with its people’. He asks that the 
reply to his letter be sent to Tinnis (the port city) in order that it reach him 
more quickly, which implies that he intended to come from Damiga, as it 
is called in the Scroll, which is Damira (where he was staying), to Fustat 
via Tinnis. The date of the letter is 18 Kislev 1391 Sel., that is 15 Novem¬ 
ber AD 1079. The letter was written by someone else (probably his scribe) 
and at the end of the letter, David added regards to the son of the addressee 
in his own handwriting, the date, and the 'alama, his identifying formula 
(which was also that of his father, Daniel b. Azariah): yeshii'a. We now 
return to the Scroll’s version, with the words ‘and three years before that’, 
by which Abiathar means three years before what he considered the most 
important event of all those described by him until then, that is, the 
pronouncement of his succession to the seat of Gaon by his father, in 
September 1081. From this we understand that David set out on his way in 
1078. Abiathar tells us further that David was then twenty years old, 
which means that he was born in 1058, a year before his father took ill, and 
that he was four when his father Daniel b. Azariah died, in 1062. Hence, 
when he was about to arrive in Tinnis (15 November 1079), David was 
twenty-one. 175 

[903] We have no information about David’s childhood and 


175 The Scroll of Abiathar: 559, b, lines 27ff, and continued on c; Bornstein suggested that 
bish na'ar should be read: be-shin'ar, i.e. in Babylonia, see the Sokolow Jubilee Volume, 48, 
n . 5. David’s letter: 532; Marx, JQP, NS 1 (1910/1), 74ff refers the interval of the three 
years to Elijah ha-Kohen’s death (November 1083) mentioned in the Scroll shortly before 
that, and concludes that David set out (from Iraq!) in 1081, arriving in Egypt only in 1083 
(two years after his emigration, according to the Scroll); here he finds a contradiction 
between what is said in the Scroll and the marriage deed of David’s wife, which has been 


751 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


adolescence. As we have seen, he was four when his father died, and we 
can surmise that it was his older brothers who raised him. We already 
know that Samuel b. Daniel, the eldest, was one of the leaders of the 
congregation in Damascus, according to a document dated October 1074, 
when David was sixteen. Or perhaps he was reared by his sister, for we 
know that Abu’l-Sari Barhun, Daniel b. Azariah’s son-in-law, evidently 
lived in Damascus as well. It is therefore likely that David grew up in 
Damascus, and left there, as we have seen, in 1078, at the age of twenty. 
Palestine was then under Turcoman rule, as was Damascus. It appears that 
the yeshiva was already in Tyre then. We have no idea whether, on setting 
out on his way, David already harboured the intention of struggling for 
the leadership of thejewish diaspora. One could assume from the fact that 
he spent two years in a comparatively out-of-way place such as Damira, 
that this was not the case, and that only in the course of his stay in Egypt 
did this ambition awaken within him, the impulse being aroused in him by 
others as well. David remained in Damira for two years after reaching it in 
1078, probably close to the beginning of the year. He stayed with a 
Damascene who had settled there (undoubtedly one of the close friends of 
David’s family in Damascus), Masliah b. Yefet b. Zub‘a. David even 
became engaged to his host Masllah’s daughter, Abiathar tells us. We 
know that Masliah was one of two brothers, sons of Yefet, and that his 
brother’s name was ‘Uthman. 

In November 1079 David left the home of his benefactor (and also of his 
fiancee) and abandoned Damira. We may assume that his departure was 
preceded byasortof campaign to win over the devotees of the house of the 
uesi’itn, as well as those who cherished the memory of his father, Daniel b. 
Azariah. There is some indication of this in a record of evidence before a 
court in Alexandria from 14 May 1079, written by Hillel b. ‘Eli, who 
afterwards became one of David’s chief supporters. We find here the 
evidence of Muvhar (mukhtar in Arabic) the elder b. Sedaqa, who is 
apparently identical with Mukhtar al-‘Attar (perfume dealer), father of 
Sedaqa (i.e., the grandson of the former Sedaqa), apparently one of the 
wealthy men of the time, who conducted business in Tyre, Fustat and 

preserved, in which it says that they were married in Fustat in 1082! He tried to extricate 
himself from this complication by suggesting reading ‘six’ instead of‘three’ in the Scroll, 
that is, that he set out on his way in 1078 and reached Egypt in 1080. Bacher claimed 
(illogically) that if David really set out in 1081, and was then aged twenty, as the Scroll 
states, he could not have been Daniel b. Azariah’s son, for the latter died in August 1062: 
Bacher, JQR, 15(1902/3), 86. n. 6; there he differs utterly with the (correct) opinion of 
Schechter, the first editor of the Scroll, that the David of the Scroll was the son of Daniel 
b. Azariah, see Saadyana, 81; see also the reservations of Cohen, Self-Government, 186, n. 
18, regarding my chronological reconstruction, reservations which I consider unjustified, 
as they are founded on the (incorrect) claim that it was not David b. Daniel who wrote the 
additional part in 532. 


7$2 



THE AFFAIR OF DAVID B. DANIEL [SECS. 902-915] 


Palestine, and was afterwards granted the title ‘haver’ by David. Muvhar 
states in his evidence that ‘Imran and Ezra, sons ofBashir b. Nahum, who 
were adversaries of Daniel b. Azariah and had even been excommunicated 
by him previously, were having a stormy argument with Muvhar in the 
foyer of the house of a certain Za‘im al-Mulk, pouring vile curses on 
Daniel’s head. We may assume that this evidence (seventeen years after the 
death of Daniel b. Azariah!) was somehow connected with the manner in 
which David, his son, organised his followers, and perhaps even ex¬ 
pressed the desire to win his approval. 176 

[904] David reached Fustat near the close of the year 1079, and there he 
was warmly welcomed by Mevorakh b. Saadia (the Nagid) and the son of 
David’s aunt (his father’s sister), whom we already know as Abu Sa’d 
Josiah ha-Kohen b. Azariah. 

The Scroll of Abiathar mentions the breaking off of David’s engage¬ 
ment to the daughter of Masllah b. Yefet, This occurred on Purim, 
evidently in the year AM 4841, or 26 February AD 1081. At the instigation 
of his cousin Josiah ha-Kohen, he afterwards married ‘the daughter of the 
prince of the time’. The marriage deed of this woman has been preserved 
in the Geniza and we learn from it that her name was Nashiya, that she 
came from a Karaite family, and that she was the daughter of Moses 
ha-Kohen b. Aaron. The date of the marriage deed: 23 Shevat 1393 Sel., 
Sunday 15 January AD 1082, that is, less than a year after breaking off his 
engagement with his fiancee from Damira. Fourteen people signed the 
marriage deed, among them Ezekiel ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli (who is ‘Eli ha- 
Kohen the Jerusalemite, b. Ezekiel, the well-known parnas); the cantor 
and scribe Hillel b. ‘Eli; Abraham b. Isaac ha-Talmid; and of particular 
interest, Abiathar’s cousin, Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph av-bet-din , who 
afterwards was also a signatory on a document from David’s court. 
Apparently the relationship between the two cousins, Solomon and 
Abiathar, was marred for some reason. As to the father of the bride, Moses 
ha-Kohen b. Aaron, ‘prince of the time’, he was one of the Karaite 
notables and wealthy men of Fustat. In his daughter’s marriage deed, he is 

176 On Masliah b. Yefet, the Damascene in Damira, see: Goitein, Eretz-Israel, 8(1966/7), 
288f. The document from Alexandria: 531; Sedaqa he-haver b. Mukhtar, see the deed of 
partnership to which he is a party, ill the handwriting of David b. Daniel: 541, autumn 
1086; see Sedaqa b. Muvhar in the Hebrew Index. On the life of David in Fustat, see the 
Scroll of Abiathar: 559, c, lines 5ff. A special relationship may have grown between David 
and the ‘Babylonian’ congregation in Fustat, as one can deduce from what is said in TS 10 
J 7, f. 10, a document which contains a description of the affair of Wuhsha, a woman who 
gave birth out of wedlock, see: Goitein, JQR Anniversary Volume, 241 f; in lines 10-11 it is 
said that she went to the synagogue of the ‘Babylonians’ on the Day of Atonement, and 
when the nasi saw her, he threw her out. This occurred in about 1080, probably David b. 
Daniel being referred to, as is also assumed bv Goitein, Mediterranean Society, HI, 280, 489, 
n. 19. 


753 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


called ‘banner of the Jews and joy of their splendour’. In a Karaite mem¬ 
orial list, he is called ‘our crown, diadem of our heads ... the honourable, 
mighty and noble prince’. This marriage seems to have been contracted 
with an eye to the public. Apparently there was support for the exilarchic 
family among the Karaites. As we have seen, similar things were also said 
in the Scroll about Daniel b. Azariah, that ‘he was supported by the sect of 
the sela 1 ’, and it seems that the marriage of his son was an indication of this 
same connection. David’s marriage thus took place slightly more than two 
years after his arrival in Fustat. In the continuation, Abiathar’s Scroll 
describes briefly the quarrel which broke out between David b. Daniel and 
his cousin and benefactor, Josiah ha-Kohen. It is not accidental that 
David’s rival, Abiathar, speaks respectfully ofjosiah ha-Kohen and of his 
father Azariah as well. There could be no more likely reason for this 
quarrel than Josiah’s rejection of the idea of a rebellion against the Pal¬ 
estinian yeshiva. 177 

[905] The rift between David and the Nagid Mevorakh b. Saadia 
becomes understandable when seen against the same background, that is 
their attitude towards the Palestinian yeshiva, for the physicians sons of 
Saadia were closely connected with the priestly family which headed the 
Palestinian yeshiva at that time. The dispute between David and Mev¬ 
orakh first broke out, it emerges from the Scroll, after 1082, and it 
immediately took on a severe turn, with the consequent need for the 
intervention of the rulers. In his Scroll, Abiathar points to three stages in 
the dispute: the expulsion of Mevorakh to the Fayyum for one year; the 
permission granted him to return to Lower Egypt, to Alexandria; and his 
return to his post. There is not the slightest hint in the Scroll as to the cause 
of the dispute; to the reader of the Scroll at the time, however, this silence 
in itself was proof of the fact that the dispute stemmed from the struggle 

177 The breaking-off of the engagement and the marriage: 559, c, lines 7ff; according to what 
is said there, David sent the^ef, the deed of his breaking off the engagement, via Sedaqa b. 
Nufay‘, who is evidently the son of Solomon (Salama) b. Saadia (Sa‘Td) b. Saghlr b. 
Nufay‘, mentioned in letters in my collection, see the Hebrew Index; see the appellation 
of b. Nufay' in 602, b, and cf.: Goitein, BJRL, 54(1971/2), 100, n. 1. Document 602 is a 
letter from Sedaqa, writing from Tyre to his father on 28 October 1090. We find details 
about Sedaqa b. Nufay‘, the envoy of David b. Daniel, and about his father, in a short 
letter in the handwriting of Hillel b. ‘Eli, saying that they were people who needed aid 
from the charity chest. Hillel writes to ‘al-pantas al-ne’eman resuy (the trustworthy and 
beloved one) of the yeshiva’ asking for help for the two, ‘since they are of the town’s poor 
people’. See: TS NSJ 294. Also AbuT-Khayr ha-ger (the proselyte; AbuT-Khayr, which is 
correct, not Ben al-Khayr, as in the Scroll of Abiathar in its extant version), is mentioned 
there in the continuation (see infra, sec. 905), and also in the Geniza fragment: TS 8J 24, f. 
7, a, lines lOff: ‘As soon as you read my letter, give Zayn b. Abu’l Khayr ha-ger forty 
maims of cedar resin’. It is a fragment of a merchant’s letter dated ca. 1100. The marriage 
deed: TS 24.1, edited (in part) by Schechter, JQR, 13(1900/1), 220f. On Moses ha-Kohen 
b. Aaron see: Mann. Jews, I, 176f, 187, n. 2, 188; see also the memorial list: TS 8K 22, f. 2, 
b, ibid., II, 211; see also Goitein, Mediterranean Society, III, 136, 456, n. 95, who notes that 


754 



THE AFFAIR OF DAVID B. DANIEL [SECS. 902-915] 


for the leadership of the diaspora which had begun to forge ahead. The 
man who helped David get the Nagid Mevorakh out of his way is said to 
have been a certain Ben al-Khayr al-ger (the proselyte). We have no idea 
who this proselyte was. As noted above, his correct by-name was Abu’l- 
Khayr, a frequent kunya among thejews during that period. The family of 
Saadia, who were close to the rulers, probably had quite a few opponents 
and even enemies. Abiathar had already written to the Fustat parnas ‘Eli 
ha-Kohen b. Hayyim, some ten years before the dispute began (14 No¬ 
vember 1071), telling of his anxiety for the Nagid (thenjudah b. Saadia): 
‘Let there be deliverance for our Nagid and may the Lord’s will save him 
from all terror’. Here there is a clear hint of the distress which had befallen 
Judah b. Saadia. 

From here onward, Abiathar enumerates David b. Daniel’s deeds, 
aberrant in his opinion, in the period from 1082 through 1094, twelve 
years in which he apparently enjoyed the unwavering support of the 
Jewish leadership in Fustat and the other communities of Egypt and its 
surroundings, and apparently also that of the authorities. Many letters and 
documents written by David b. Daniel have been preserved in the Geniza. 
A formula which is repeated in some of them is, ‘and may your well¬ 
being, our dear one [or, our honourable one] increase’ [or, ‘increase 
forever’], together with the ‘alama, yeshu'd. Some of them bear the heading 
‘son of the exilarch’. In others, he calls himself‘David the nasi b. Daniel 
the nasi and Gaon’. According to the Scroll, he was given to bullying the 
cantors and even punishing them by flogging. Some letters also provide 
evidence of David b. Daniel’s manner of imposing his dominion over the 
cantors and the slaughterers, such as his Arabic letter to Aaron the cantor, 
who is evidently ‘Aaron the mumhe and cantor b. Ephraim of Zoan’, that 
is, of Fustat. He informs him there of the banning of a father and son (the 
father’s name is Saul) for some sin they committed with regard to the 
slaughtering; the cantor is therefore asked to publicise the matter and to 
renew the ban until they mend their ways. 

David ruled in Alexandria (No' Ammon), in Tinnls (‘the Isle of Hanes’), 
in Damietta (‘the Isle of Kajior’) and in Fustat (Shafrir nil us), and collected 
taxes from all these communities, a practice previously unheard of. These 
taxes, mentioned by Abiathar in his Scroll, evidently came from the 
money for the slaughtering which previously had been set aside for the 
Palestinian yeshiva. We are well aware of the fact that David dominated 
the legal system and established his own court. A draft of a deed of 
partnership in his handwriting, dated Elul AM 4846, that is August- 
September AD 1086, has been preserved. The deed deals with a part- 

the dowry amounted to an enormous sum, some 900 dinars. The quarrel with Josiah 

ha-Kohen: 559, c, lines 9-11, and see also ibid., line 6. 


755 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

nership between Sedaqa h e-haver b. Muvhar (Mukhtar) and the Jerusa¬ 
lemite Nethanel Hibat Allah b. Yeshu‘a, an expert weaver. 178 

[906] Another letter which bears witness to David’s authoritative 

178 The rift with Mevorakh: 559, c, lines llff. Abu’l Khayr, see the previous note. Abiathar’s 
letter: 547, a, upper margin, lines lOff. The process of dominating the communities: 559, 
c, lines 15ff; d, lines 1-4. The letters of David b. Daniel are collected in my corpus, 
532-543; among the writings in the Geniza, there are additional documents in the 
handwriting of David b. Daniel. Also in 532 is the characteristic greeting ‘and your 
well-being, dear one, shoud increase’, this being further proof that David dictated it and 
added some lines, which are certainly in his handwriting. Cohen, Self-Government, 191, 
notes that he assembled sixteen documents which mention David, calling him by the title 
nasi, see ibid. , in the note. The deed written by David b. Daniel: 541. To Aaron the cantor: 
538. Cohen, ibid., 198, hastened to reject the identity I suggested (Gil, Perdqitn, 58) for the 
writer of six of the letters (included in my collection), namely David b. Daniel; he bases 
his claim on the comparison of the signature ofDavid in 540 and the writing of538, which 
in his opinion are not from the same hand; but he is undoubtedly mistaken, evidently 
because of the difference in the shape of th egimmel. One cannot make decisions on matters 
of handwriting on the basis of signatures alone, for these are sometimes different from the 
usual handwriting; as to th egimmel, David was in the habit of writing it in two ways, and 
both can be seen in his letter 536; the influence of the pen on the handwriting should also 
be taken into consideration, and David used pens of varying thickness. To the documents 
written by David, TS 20.162 should be added, which is the draft (or copy) of a court 
document concerning an inheritance, in which the first nineteen lines are in David’s 
handwriting (a hurried and careless handwriting), after which Hillel b. ‘Eli continued 
(evidently due to David’s obvious nervousness). David’s identity can also be felt from the 
contents and style of his letters: 533, an invitation to one of the people of Fustat to take the 
trouble and appear before him; 534, in which he agrees to meet with some unidentified 
person, while he himself is staying with Abu’l-Barakat, who swears he will not let him go 
out of his house; 535, advising someone not to be bitter; 536, an episode of two girls, one 
too young to marry who is an orphan, and the other also too young, but her father 
married her off, hence the marriage is valid; 537, instructions to a parnas to execute the 
payment of alimony to the divorcee of a certain Abu’l-Baqa’ Samuel, for their daughter; 
the payment will be made by Abu’l-Rida Solomon b. Mevorakh (cf. on him: Goitein, 
Shalem, 3[ 1975/6], 95 [ = ha-Yishuv, 173). The matter of 542 is very clear, which is a 
fragment from the opening of a letter in the handwriting ofDavid b. Daniel; the style is 
lofty: ‘we wish you much peace, we, our scholars and our judges who sit before us, and 
the Cherethites and Pelethites (2 Sam., xv:18; meaning - according to the midrash - the 
Sanhedrin!), for, by the grace of the God ofDavid, our father (i.e. King David), we are at 
peace’. He further thanks God, ‘who lifted up our heads against our enemies, to smite 
through the loins of them who rise against us, to beam down our foes* and see the notes to 
this fragment, cf. Scheiber, Acta Orientalia (BP), 17(1964), 219, n. 5; 539, to rabbenu 
(Nehorai b. Nissim?), about a family quarrel between Mufarrij b. Sulayman and his wife, 
with the brother-in-law intervening. The two consider divorcing and David asks the 
addressee to summon them to the court; from line 4, it emerges that David lives in 
al-Qahira, not in Fustat; 543 is a letter of condolence from David to Abu’l-Muna, on the 
death of his uncle, his father’s brother; this Abu’l-Muna is perhaps David’s aide and 
representative, mentioned in the letter of Tobiah ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli of Baniyas, Bodl MS 
Heb b. 13, f. 15, margin: ‘we have learned from Muslims who arrived from Ascalon 
that Abu’l-Muna, the servant of our Master, has arrived in Ascalon’. Another letter with 
the heading ‘David son of the exilarch’ was preserved in the Geniza collection in 
Paris (Consist, isr. VII A 39), but it has been lost (according to information from the 
Director of the Library of the Alliance israelite universelle in Paris, from 18 April, 1978); 
see: Schwab, REJ, 64(1912), 120. Two brief letters written by David b. Daniel, 536a, 
536b, in his characteristic style, addressed to Nehorai b. Nissim, deal with 


756 



THE AFFAIR OF DAVID B. DANIEL [SECS. 902-915] 


methods is from the ‘Rav’, Judah ha-Kohen b. Joseph, the spiritual leader 
of the Maghribis in Egypt, to Nehorai b. Nissim. The writer tells Nehorai 
that David b. Daniel had demanded that the cantor Hillel b. ‘Eli inform 
Nehorai that an excommunication ofjoseph b. Eleazar al-Harfri (‘the silk 
merchant’), of Tinms, who calls himself haver, was to be proclaimed. 
The reason for this was that David had learned that this man has been 
calling for prayer for the well-being of someone whom the authorities 
have not recognised as ‘head’. Obviously, the man in question was 
Abiathar ha-Kohen; his name was being mentioned in the prayer, as was 
customary in the synagogues in Egypt with regard to the Palestinian 
Gaon. This was a custom which David b. Daniel naturally tried to root 
out, for he was the ‘head’ from then on and it was his authority that should 
be mentioned in prayer. For the time being, various people intervened in 
the matter and obtained David’s agreement to postpone the excommuni¬ 
cation untiljoseph b. Eleazar answered the warning letter that was written 
to him. Therefore, the ‘Rav’ writes, the proclamation of the excommuni¬ 
cation had to be postponed. Indirectly, we learn how great was David b. 
Daniel’s influence on much older, experienced and respected men, such as 
‘the Rav’ and Nehorai b. Nissim, despite his youth and lack of experience. 
This undoubtedly expressed their adherence to the ideal David stood for, 
as they saw it: the unification of the entire nation and the entire diaspora, 
around a scion of the House of King David. 

We have a comparatively large amount of information from Ascalon, 
which ties in with the details quoted by Abiathar in his Scroll. According 
to the Scroll, David controlled the communities of Ascalon, Caesarea, 
Haifa, Beirut, and Jubayl. And here we find Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mev- 
orakh, leader of the community in Ascalon, writing (in Arabic) to ‘Eli 
ha-Kohen b. Hayyim in Fustat, asking him to find some fine fabric, 
woven of silk and cotton, for a special outfit for the nasi. The weave would 
cost 42 dinars. Two dinars had been received from the people of Fustat as 
their donation; the remainder would be collected from donations from the 
people of Ascalon. Nathan prays to God ‘that he glorify the leadership of 
the nation by [lengthening] his days [of David] and enabling him to see the 
days of Redemption’. This seems to be more than the usual ornate phrase¬ 
ology. In another letter, written by Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevorakh for 
another Ascalonian, Abraham b. Halfon, on 3 November 1090, one can 
feel, beyond the compexities of local politics, the extent of David’s influ¬ 
ence on the communities. It is he who appoints dayyanlm and cantors or 

help for two needy people, one whose name is Wahb and the other’s Samuel the cantor 

and mevin (probably court assessor). From these we can also see to what extent David 

controlled his followers in Fustat. 


757 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

dismisses them without much ado. It seems that in the fervour of his 
control over Ascalon and the other coastal cities mentioned above, David 
and his retainers also used the pretext that Ascalon was actually not part of 
Palestine. The answer to this claim was written by Shelah ‘the sixth’ b. 
Nahum, in a draft of a letter to Ephraim Abu’l-Khayr. He has discussed 
the matter with the Gaon, he writes, who utterly refutes this opinion, on 
the basis of specific passages from the Book of Judges and Chronicles and 
by analogy with the other coastal cities and even with Jerusalem, which 
was only conquered in the days of King David. 179 

[907] In another letter, apparently written in the autumn of 1092, for 
Daniel is already called there ‘our Master the Exilarch’ (the timing of this 
title shall be discussed below), Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevorakh mentions 
two notables in Ascalon who sent gifts to sayyidnd rosh ha-gold: rath of 

wax and green dates. David did not confirm their receipt; therefore the 
donors are worried, as is the community, for they assumed that he had 
refrained from writing to them because he believed the Gazans living in 
Ascalon, evidently refugees from the Turcomans’ invasion, who were 
slandering them. The community threatened to remain in their homes and 
not to go to the synagogue (a form of protest which was customary among 
the Jewish communities, and in Ascalon in particular; there are character¬ 
istic examples of this in the Geniza). In another fragment in the hand¬ 
writing of Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevorakh, the appointment of a cantor 
from among the Gazans is mentioned, Ibrahim b. Khalaf, who was not at 
all suited to this position, hence they asked of the sayyidnd al-ndsito appoint 
another. This appears to be the onset of the enmity between the Gazans 
and the local people. In another fragment written by Nathan, he also 
mentions the sayyidnd al-nasl, and there he speaks of the closing of the 
synagogue, evidently as a result of this internal quarrel. In a letter he wrote 
on 26 October 1093, to ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Hayyim in Fustat, Nathan 
ha-Kohen b. Mevorakh apparently began to rid himself of some of his 
public functions. It is obvious from the letter that he had been David’s 
most trusted retainer in Ascalon for some years, but he had had to endure 
many hardships, while many hated him because of his status. Evidently, in 
order to embellish the phrase, he adds that he bears no grudge against 


179 The letter of‘the Rav’: TS 12.657; see the English translation in Goitein, Letters, 173f; see 
idem, Mediterranean Society, II, 332. Cohen (ibid., 108, 176) assumes that it refers to public 
prayers for the persecuted Nagid, Mevorakh b. Saadia. The domination of Ascalon 
and other communities in the coastal area: 559, c, lines 18-20. Nathan ha-Kohen’s letter: 
585; see the prayer in the margin right, lines 7ff. Abraham b. Halfon: 584. Shelah b. 
Nahum: 550; Abu’l-Khayr is perhaps identical with the person the surviving version of 
the Scroll refers to as ‘Ben al-Khayr the proselyte’, see 559, c, line 12, and note 177, 
above. 


758 



THE AFFAIR OF DAVID B. DANIEL [SECS. 902-915] 


David; on the contrary he is convinced that he has done his best for his 
communities. 180 

[908] From what has been said, it is dear that David had no desire to 
replace Abiathar in the leadership of the Palestinian yeshiva, which was 
then in Tyre. From the very outset, he denied the superiority of this 
institution and its authority. The status of exilarch was what seemed to 
him the appropriate status for the leadership of the diaspora, now that it 
was decreed that the Palestinian yeshiva was to be in exile, and the Jewish 
population in Palestine was being threatened with extinction because of 
the unceasing warfare and the ruthlessness of both the Turcomans and the 
Arabs. It was the exilarch, the embodiment of the regal concept of the 
exiled House of King David, from the time ofjehoiachin and onward, 
who would inaugurate changes in the nation’s conditions in the diaspora 
and perhaps even lead to the awaited complete redemption. David did not 
start to call himself exilarch immediately. For some twelve years after his 
arrival in Egypt, he was content with the title nasi which his father had 
borne, while at times (apparently mainly during the first years) he called 
himself ‘son of the exilarch’. A letter dealing with the transfer of money to 
the Jerusalemites from the rent from the house in Fustat, which was a 
foundation ( heqdesh ) for their welfare, dated 4 Adar II AM 4845, that is 
3 March AD 1085, bears the signature ‘David the nasi b. Daniel the nasi 
Gaon’; in Tammuz 1399 Sel., July AD 1088, in the court of‘our Master 
David ha-nasi the great nasi of all Israel’ a deed of evidence was drawn up; 
on 23 Iyar 1400 Sel., that is 6 May AD 1089, in a court document written in 
Fustat, David is called ‘.. . our nasi David the nasi of all Israel’. In the draft 
of a record of evidence concerning a divorce, written by Abraham b. Isaac 
ha-Talmld and bearing the date Monday, 26 Marheshwan 1403 Sel. (10 
November AD 1091), it is stated: ‘David the great nasi rosh galuyot [head of 
the diasporas] of all Israel, may our God destroy his foes, son of his 
honour, his great Sanctity, our Lord and Master Daniel, the great nasi, 
head of the yeshiva Ge‘on Ya‘aqov, may he rest in peace’. In a record of 
evidence written on ‘Monday, 25 Kislev’, a date which in that period was 
possible only in AM 4852, that is 8 December AD 1091, it says it was 
written in ‘the council of the Grand Court of sayyidna ha-nasi ha-gadol nesi 
galuyot (our Lord the great nasi, nasi of the diaporas) of all Israel, may his 
glory increase’. 


iso The gjf ts f rom Ascalon: 587; cf. also what is said in the letter of another Ascalonian, 
Abraham b. Halfon: 584 a, lines 20-21, that the community threatens to remain in their 
homes if a certain appointment is imposed on them; also 595, lines lOff; cf. Goitein, 
Mediterranean Society, II, 65. The appointment of the cantor: Mosseri II124.1 (L 126), see 
in Cohen, Shalem, 3(1980/81), 103f. The closing of the synagogue: ENA NS 63, f. 16, in 
Cohen, ibid., 105. Giving up public functions: 586. Another fragment in the handwriting 


759 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


The next document at our disposal is dated 12 February 1092. It is a deed 
written by David’s aide and scribe, the Maghribi Abraham b. Isaac ha- 
Talmicl, and drawn up in the court ‘appointed by the Grand Court, may 
Heaven preserve it, of his honour, his great Sanctity, our Lord and Master 
David, the great nasi, roshgdliiyot of all Israel, son of our Lord and Master 
Daniel the great nasi, head of the yeshiva Ge’on Ya'aqov, may he rest in 
peace’. The validation of the deed was written by David himself: ‘this deed 
was validated before us in the Grand Court of our Lord David the exilarch, 
son of our Lord Daniel, Gaon and nasi of all Israel’. Among the signatories, 
we find Abraham b. Shemaiah he-haver, great-grandson of Shemaiah 
Gaon, and ‘Ula ha-Levi b. Joseph (the parnas from Fustat). Again, curi¬ 
ously enough, we find Abiathar’s cousin, Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph 
av-bet-din, signing this deed, in the company of Abiathar’s rival, David. At 
this point, I may summarise and say that David’s decision to be called 
exilarch was made in the autumn of 1091. Close to that time, apparently, 
Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevorakh also wrote his letter dealing with the gifts 
to sayyidna rosh ha-gold, which I have already mentioned. This was also 
how he addressed David in a letter written about a year and a half later, on 
26 October 1093, while on 13 November 1090 he was still calling David 
sayyidna al-ndsi. m 

[909] In the autumn of 1093, David tried to extend his authority to Tyre. 
In the Scroll of Abiathar, we are given to understand that a sort of 
assembly of Rabbanites and Karaites ( bene ‘onena) took place jointly in 
Tyre on the eve of Rosh ha-shana, 23 September 1093. Near this date, we 
find a deed of betrothal written in Fustat on Sunday, 12 Kislev 1045 Sel., 
that is 4 December AD 1093. It is written by Abraham b. Isaac ha-Talmld 
‘in the court which was appointed by the House of the resh gdliitd, may 


of Nathan ha-Kohen of Ascalon, has been preserved: TS 8 J 39, f. 1, in which he sends 
regards to ‘his excellency, our Lord the Exilarch’, see in Cohen, ibid., 114. 

181 The letter from March 1085: 540. The record of evidence: TS 20.116; on the verso there is 
a list of chattels and other details of a marriage deed, in the handwriting of David. The 
matter of the divorce: ENA 4020, f. 47 r. Another fragment from the Geniza in which he is 
called, ha-nasi ha-gddol rosh gdluyot kol Israel , etc. is TS 8J 7, f. 4, the opening of a letter to 
him, in which the writer informs him that he has arrived in Alexandria. The court 
document: BM Or 5545, f. 7. Cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 523, n. 48. The record 
of evidence: ENA 4010, f. 31 — dealing with the collection of a joint debt in the name of the 
daughter of a deceased partner; the deed of partnership had been validated by ‘ra’s 
al-mathiba (head of the yeshiva) Elijah ha-Kohen of blessed memory’, and was written in 
Tyre on a piece of paper that was cut from a letter dated 14 Kislev (that is eleven days 
earlier), which was sent from Alexandria and mentioned a shipment of a jarra zayt halal (a 
jar of kosher oil), perhaps for David b. Daniel. TS 20.162 is also connected with this 
matter, cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, III, 280, 489, n. 19. The deed from 12 February 
1092: TS 20.31; a fragment of which was edited by Schechter, Saadyana, 81, n. 2 (the 
formula of the validation there is the usual one in deeds of the period, containing a 
confirmation of the identity of the witnesses, and there was no reason for Schechter’s 
amazement, ibid.); the form maruta (Master) so-and-so was evidently commonly applied 
to the exilarch. Cf.: ‘at the gate (i.e. court) oimarutd David rosh gdliitd’ (who is David b. 


760 



THE AFFAIR OF DAVID B. DANIEL [SECS. 902-915] 

Heaven guard him’. Apart from that of the writer, the signatures there are 
of Ezekiel ha-Kohen he-haver b. ‘Eli he-haver, of blessed memory (the 
father was ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, the Jerusalem parnas), and ‘Eli 
ha-Kohen b. Yahya (b. Hayyim, the Fustat parnas). Abraham b. Isaac 
ha-Talmld also wrote a court document dealing with a case of the marriage 
to a Nubian slave-girl in Ascalon, which was written on 23 Kislev, of the 
same year (that is eleven days after the former document), that is 15 
December, where the formula is as follows: ‘David, [the great nasi, rosh 
gdluyot of all Israel, son of his great honour] and Sanctity, our Lord and 
Master Daniel’, etc; the reconstruction is beyond doubt. In the same hand, 
that of Abraham b. Isaac ha-Talmid, there is also a deed of dedication of a 
house in Damascus, to the synagogue there. The deed was also written in 
Fustat ‘in the Grand Court. . . of his great honour and Sanctity, our Lord 
and Master, David the great nasi rosh gdluyot of all Israel’; however the date 
has not been preserved. In a letter of complaint sent from Tyre to David b. 
Daniel, to which we shall return below, he is called ‘our Lord, nasi of this 
generation, roshgaluyot' ; ‘our Lord and Master, the great nasi, rosh ha-gold'; 
and there is also a prayer that ‘he may be granted a worthy descendant’, 
from which we understand that David was still childless, after ten years of 
marriage. The formula sayyidna ha-nasl ha-gadol rosh gdluyot kol Israel is also 
to be found in a letter from thejerusalemitejoseph b. Moses, writing from 
Fustat to Yefet b. Eleazer in al-Mahalla. 

It is now quite clear that what we are witnessing is the formation of two 
competing centres of leadership struggling with one another-the exilarch 
in Egypt (which had not existed until then) and the Palestinian yeshiva, in 
exile in Tyre. If we look at the general political scene at the time, we shall 
find a strong connection between the political and military events and 
those dramatic developments occurring within the Jewish context and 
dividing the Jewish communities. The Scroll of Abiathar also hints at this 
link without saying anything explicit. It states the facts one after the other: 
‘and Tyre was conquered’, which is clearly a hint at the Fatimid conquest 
of the city and the liquidation of the rule of the sons of the cadi Ibn Abl 
‘Aqil in AH 482, which began on 6 March AD 1089. Jubayl, Sidon and 
Acre were also conquered at the time by the Fatimid army, bringing an 
end to Saljuq control over these cities. As David was dependant largely on 
the patronage of the Fatimid rullers, both he and his followers once again 
had great hopes that it would be easy to degrade the yeshiva, which had 
enjoyed the protection of the cadi’s family in Tyre. These hopes increased 
towards the end of 1091, and we have seen that at that time, David was 
already called exilarch. In Tyre itself, however, an entirely new situation 

Zakkai), see Harkavy, Teshuvot , No. 555, p. 296. Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevorakh, the 

gifts: 587. October 1093: 586, a, lines 7, 12. November 1090: 584, a, line 13. 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

arose for the time being, when the Fatimid army commander there, Munir 
(or Naslr) al-Dawla al-Juyushl, shook off the yoke of the central auth¬ 
orities, to the dissatisfaction of the local population. Only on 12July 1093 
did the Fatimid army suppress this local uprising, and it seems that as a 
consequence, David’s authority in Tyre was strengthened and he was 
pronounced exilarch there as well, on the eve of Rosh ha-shana. 182 

[910] As to Abiathar ha-Kohen, who had now served as head of the 
yeshiva for some ten years, it was certainly not pleasant for him to remain 
in Tyre under Fatimid rule, and the same applied to all the people of the 
yeshiva. Nevertheless, it seems that the Fatimid authorities did not heavily 
interfere in public Jewish affairs in this region. As we have seen, contact 
with Egypt was again discontinued as a result of the rebellion of the local 
commander. On 4 July 1091, Abiathar was still in Tyre, writing letters 
from there, from which it emerges that he was still holding on to his 
status. One of his letters was written to Isaac b. Samuel the Spaniard, one 
of the devotees of the Palestinian yeshiva in Fustat. The bearer of the letter 
was Ezekiel ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli, of Jerusalem, whom we have already 
encountered. He travelled to Egypt in order to get help on behalf of the 
yeshiva: ‘we are all obliged to help those who are impoverished and 
destitute, the more so in the City of our Lord’. Jerusalem then became a 
key-word in Abiathar’s counter-propaganda. Indeed, Ezekiel left for Fus¬ 
tat immediately after reaching Tyre from Jerusalem. Another letter was 
sent to Baghdad in which the writer describes himself and his circle as ‘the 
geonic refugees of the land of Palestine’, referring to his brother Solomon 
ha-Kohen b. Elijah, Abiathar’s two sons, Elijah and Zadok, his son-in-law 
‘Amram ha-Kohen b. Aaron ‘he-haver ha-me‘ulle the foundation of the 
yeshiva, of Jerusalem’. The letter deals with a matter o fhaltsd and contains 
some details on the state of insecurity. A large army is said to be stationed 
around Tyre. The distress returned with even greater severity, according 
to the Scroll, when ‘Tyre returned to normality’, ‘in the year 1404 Sel., 
that is AD 1093, when the Fatimid army suppressed the rebellion, in the 
summer, and resumed its dominion over the city. The link with Egypt 
was renewed, and with it, the oppression of the yeshiva, this time with 
greater vigour. 

Now (presumably August 1093) the emissaries ofDavid arrived in Tyre 


i 82 The assembly in Tyre: 559, d, lines 1-3; the year, 1404 Sel., is mentioned ibid., c, line 25. 
The deed ofbetrothal: TS 13J 2, f. 3; cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 528, n. 51. The 
Nubian slave-girl: TS Box Misc. 27, f. 23, edited by Friedman, Gratz College Annual, 
1(1972), 58f. The deed of dedication: BM Or 5566 B, f. 7, edited in Gil, Documents, 214f. 
(No. 33, where I erroneously stated that it is the handwriting of Abraham b. Nathan). 
The letter of complaint: 603, a, lines 5-6; c, lines 1-8; see in this letter the florid praises of 
David and his forefathers, and the expression ofjoy that ‘he was prayed on as exilarch’. 
Joseph ha-Levi: TS 13 J 19, f. 6. 


762 



THE AFFAIR OF DAVID B. DANIEL [SECS. 902-915] 


with the intention of inaugurating an order preferable to him among the 
communities of Palestine and Syria. The Scroll calls them ‘bums, va¬ 
grants, people with issues, lepers, vile’. In Tyre, one of the envoys 
attacked Abiathar directly: ‘and he dismissed the head of the yeshiva and 
put him under heavy pressure’. Abiathar calls him nogesh (oppressor). This 
emissary evidently exploited his master’s influence with the Fatimid auth¬ 
orities ‘and turned over the Lord’s people to the rulers’. These are very 
blunt statements, indeed. In addition, ‘he misinterpreted the Torah and 
was biassed in his judgment’, expressions which perhaps hint at the 
connection between David’s emissary and the Karaites, a subject to which 
we shall return. This emissary also took over the court; ‘he pointed his 
tongue against many honourable people’ that is, he acted as an informant 
to the authorities. He ‘put the children of the av of the yeshiva under 
pressure’, speaking of the family of Solomon, Abiathar’s brother, ‘until 
they were forced to flee their homes, to desert their nest, he made their 
Creator angry, prevented them from studying the Torah, and it was found 
that some of them met their death’ (this seems to be a reference to the 
confiscation of a house belonging to the family, placing severe blame on 
that emissary, as if he were responsible for a fatal incident within the 
family of Solomon, Abiathar’s brother. It also speaks of preventing the 
priestly family from teaching the Torah, which apparently meant from 
earning their living). 

A confirmation of these claims can also be found in the letter of ‘ Amram 
ha-Kohen b. Aaron, Abiathar’s son-in-law, written in Damascus and 
evidently addressed to Zadok b. Josiah, which implies that they were 
undergoing terrible financial hardship. He intended to stay in Damascus in 
order to earn some money from the community there (apparently as a 
cantor, or scribe, or by collecting donations or the like), but the people of 
Damascus were under pressure because of the Jewish captives who fell into 
the hands of the Saljuqs. For the first four months, his income was 
minimal, but he decided to remain in Damascus because of the dire 
situation in Tyre and the dispute, as well as the straitened circumstances of 
his father-in-law, the Gaon. The letter also includes the matter of a family 
squabble between the writer and his wife and her father, concerning their 
son (the eldest, apparently). The family’s situation was very bad for they 
were obliged to sell the entire contents of their house in Tyre and ‘Amram 
had to see to the maintenance of six souls. He demands that his eldest son 
come to Damascus, so that they may both set out for Egypt and from there 
to Ascalon, to find some means of livelihood. If his son is not sent to him, 
he will leave for a distant land and this will mean the end of the family. 183 

183 Abiathar’s letters: 553; see especially a, lines S~13; b, lines 17-21; c, lines 15-16. See the 

Scroll of Abiathar: 559, c, lines 19-25. On Isaac b. Samuel the Spaniard, see what is said 


763 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 

[911] We can identify the most eminent of David b. Daniel’s emissaries 
and even enlarge on some of their activities. ‘The oppressor’ of which the 
Scroll speaks (in its words) is Aviram b. Dathan. One can easily see who is 
behind these Biblical names: Aviram is none other than Abraham, Dathan 
is Nathan, hence he is Abraham b. Nathan, the son of Nathan b. Abra¬ 
ham, Solomon b. Judah’s rival, known to us from the dispute over the 
gaonate in Jerusalem. We know that this Abraham was the only son of 
Nathan. In a letter which he wrote to Nethanel b. Rawh, probably in 1038 
while en route to Palestine, Nathan mentions him, implying that he was 
still a baby at the time. In a letter he wrote from Jerusalem fourteen years 
later, in the autumn of1042, he mentions ‘our son Abraham’. We first read 
about him again in a letter written some twenty years afterward by Labrat 
b. Moses ibn Sughmar of al-Mahdiyya, to Nehorai b. Nissim, in August 
1061. We understand from the letter that among the Maghribi circles in 
Fustat, there is great admiration and respect for Abraham’s erudition and 
talent. We already know that Abraham’s grandfather on his mother’s side, 
Mevorakh b. ‘Eli, was one of the heads of the ‘Babylonian’ congregation 
in Fustat, and he would stay with him when he visited Egypt, thus 
becoming acquainted with the Maghribis, whose notables (such as Neh¬ 
orai) were among the most eminent of the ‘Babylonian’ congregation. We 
find a deed of sale written in Jerusalem on 8 March 1066 in which a woman 
named Sittuna, daughter of Yefet, sells a quarter of two shops, evidently 
in Ramla, to Abraham b. Nathan. The deed of sale is in the handwriting of 
Abiathar ha-Kohen b. Elijah Gaon; the validation of the deed was effected 
in Fustat, perhaps already after the Turcomans’ conquest ofjerusalem, and 
this is in the handwriting of Hillel b. ‘Eli, and also signed by ‘Eli he-haver 
b. ‘Amram. In 1076, Abraham was in Ramla and there signed a deed 
written on Wednesday, 8 Elul 4836, 10 August 1076: ‘Abraham b. R. 
Nathan av ha-yeshiva, of blessed righteous memory.’ As we are aware, 
Palestine was then in the hands of the Turcomans. Some half a year later, 
Abraham is in Fustat, and on Thursday, 3NisanSel. 1388, that is 30 March 
AD 1077, we find him there signing a court document together with 
Abiathar ha-Kohen. It seems that when David b. Daniel started to organ¬ 
ise his faction, Abraham b. Nathan was among the first to join him, a fact 
we can easily understand when taking into consideration the rivalry 
between his late father and the priestly family, whose son Abiathar was 
now head of the yeshiva in Tyre. The Scroll notes Aviram b. Dathan’s 
mission to Tyre to establish David’s authority there. We have also seen 
how, according to the Scroll, he maltreated the family of the Gaon. Some 

above, sec. 315, in the note. The letter of‘Amram ha-Kohen: 552; it is interesting that he 

wants to travel to Ascalon, which was definitely David b. Daniel’s sphere of influence, 

which may have been the source of the dispute between him and his wife’s family. 


764 



THE AFFAIR OF DAVID B. DANIEL [SECS. 902-915] 


of Abraham b. Nathan’s letters from that period have been preserved. In 
one of them, written from Tyre to Nehorai b. Nissim, evidently, he 
complains about someone named b. Elhanan and he asks that the man be 
excommunicated, as he is hindering him and causing his pesTqdt (the 
allowances) to dwindle. He has already complained about him to sayyidna 
(our Master), undoubtedly meaning David b. Daniel. He also asks that 
letters of recommendation be sent from the central authority in Egypt 
(kutub sultaniyya). In another letter, evidently also written in Tyre, to the 
‘Rav’, he complains about the troubles caused him in the districts in which 
he is staying at the time (certainly Tyre and its surroundings), and cites an 
episode concerning a shop and the apartment above it — perhaps referring 
to the requisition hinted at in the Scroll at Abiathar. The third letter is also 
from Tyre, and was sent to Nehorai, evidently only in 1094, after the 
downfall of David b. Daniel. Abraham describes there his difficult cir¬ 
cumstances after having backed the wrong side. He expresses his un¬ 
happiness at the resulting hardship he is enduring and his fear that there 
will be more to come. He also depicts in detail his economic distress and 
how he was forced to sell some of his quires and to squander money that 
had accumulated from rent (perhaps from the aforementioned houses in 
Ramla) which he had been receiving for a number of years. He asks about 
the possibility of moving to Egypt in order to find a livelihood there. 
There is also veiled news of gory events in Tyre (probably in 1093) and of 
the bitter fate of the Karaites ( bene ha-sole‘a) there, of whom only three 
remain. 

Further light is shed on the events in Tyre and the activities of Abraham 
b. Nathan there, in a letter from one of David b. Daniel’s followers, 
writing to David from Tyre, evidently in 1093. The writer resents the fact 
that he has received no backing from al-rayyis Abu Ishaq; Abu Ishaq is a 
common kunya for Abraham and there is almost no doubt that he is 
referring to Abraham b. Nathan. On the other hand, the writer com¬ 
plains, he helps the ‘Rum, the Ifranj (that is, the Jews who come from 
Byzantium and from Western European countries, whom he calls the 
Franks), and the proselytes’ (evidently Christians who converted to Ju¬ 
daism in Christian countries and found refuge in Tyre). He provides them 
with fasa’iq (the plural form in Arabic of the Hebrew word pesiqa, which 
means a regular allowance) and food, and even appoints them to posts. 

Eventually Abraham b. Nathan was reconciled with the adversaries of 
David b. Daniel, that is, Abiathar and the Palestinian yeshiva, and the 
Nagid. This is apparently borne out by a fragment of a letter from the 
Nagid, Mevorakh b. Saadia, to Abraham, from which it is only possible 
to make out that he is speaking of people from the Fayyum and the 
mediation of some quarrel. It seems that through support from Nehorai 
and other eminent Maghribis, Abraham was given the position ofdayyan 


765 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


in al-Qahira, and he remained at this post until his death in ca. 1115. He 
merited a number of excellent titles: ‘yesod (foundation of) the yeshiva’, 
resh be rabbanan (probably, head of the house of learning), rosh ha-seder. m 

[912] According to the Scroll, Abraham had to flee from Tyre during 
the uprising of Munir (or Naslr) al-Dawla, and he returned there in 1404 
Sel., that is 1093, evidently in August, when ‘Tyre returned to normality’, 
that is when the Fatimid army suppressed Munir al-Dawla’s rebellion. 
Before returning to Tyre, Abraham managed to be active on behalf of 
David b. Daniel in No’ Ammon, which is Alexandria, and in al-Mahalla. 
When he returned to Tyre, he obtained a foothold in Acre as well and, as 
we have seen, he afterwards organised the great assembly in Tyre, at 
which he informed the people of Tyre of the decision taken in Fustat to 
proclaim David b. Daniel exilarch. In this connection the Scroll mentions 
his special relationship to the ‘sons of‘onena’, the Karaites. Above we have 
seen a description of their end in Tyre according to Abraham b. Nathan’s 
own letter. The proclamation of David as exilarch was made, according to 
Abiathar, with the consent of two notables: Ibn Sa‘d (which should 
perhaps be Abu Sa‘d) al-Razzaq and Abu Nasr b. Shu'ayb. For the time 
being, we do not know the identity of this al-Razzaq (or his son). If his 
kunya was Abu Sa‘d, it should be noted that Josiah ha-Kohen b. Azariah, a 
relative of David b. Daniel, had this kunya. However, we should bear in 

184 Aviram b. Dathan: 559, c, lines 21, 25, 29; Marx. PAAJR, 16(1946/7), 198, n. 71, already 
understood the meaning of these Biblical names in the Scroll, but did not attribute it to 
this Abraham b. Nathan, cf.: Cohen, Self Government, 123, n. 76. The letters of Nathan b. 
Abraham: 180, line 7; 200, line 3. Labrat’s letter: INA d 55, f. 13, lines 35-36; cf. Goitein, 
Tarbiz, 36(1966/7), 62f. The deed of sale: 544. The deed from Ramla: 568. Fustat in 1077: 
ULCOr 1080j 9. The letters of Abraham b. Nathan: 555-557. The complaint from Tyre: 
603. The Nagid’s letter: TS NS J 131. 610, the letter of Tobiah ha-Kohen of Baniyas, 
contains information on the plague in AH 505, AD 1111, when Abraham b. Nathan also 
fell ill but recovered (the Nagid, Mevorakh b. Saadia, also fell ill of the plague and died 
from it); see on this plague Ibn al-Qalanisi, 181. For further details on Abraham b. 
Nathan, see: Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 512 f. He was probably about eighty when 
he died. In TS 18 J 1, f. 18, written in March 1116, Abraham b. Nathan’s widow confirms 
having received what was due to her from her husband’s property; cf. Goitein, Mediter¬ 
ranean Society, III, 483, n. 45. In TS 8J 38, f. 11, a fragment of a letter, we find the 'alama of 
Nathan b. Abraham (and of his son Abraham), yesha' yeqarev, and‘Abraham b. R. Nathan 
av-bet-din of all Israel, of blessed memory’, is mentioned there; TS AS 145.8 is a deed in the 
handwriting of Abraham b. Nathan, bearing his signature; ULC Or 1080 J 131 is a 
fragment from the opening of a letter from Mevorakh b. Isaac, of Aleppo, to ‘the council 
of the splendour of the Torah and the arm of its magnificence, his great honour and 
sanctity, our Lord and Master Abraham, glory of the scholars, top of the learned, son of 
his great honour and sanctity, our Lord and Master Nathan, av-bet-din of all Israel’. TS 13J 
6 , f. 21 is a letter from Manasseh b. Saadia, to ‘the council of our Master, crown and 
diadem of our heads, the excellent Master, foundation of the yeshiva and its deputy, 
great-grandson of his great honour and sanctity, our Lord and Master Nathan b. Abra¬ 
ham, of blessed righteous memory’; cf. Mann, Jeter, II, 232 (its shelf-mark there: TS 13 J 
5, f. 21); nin here means son. TS 6 J 11, f. 8 is a fragment of a deed in the handwriting of 
Abraham with the remnant of his signature and also yesha ‘ yeqarev, TS 8 j 7, f. 11, is a 


766 



THE AFFAIR OF DAVID B. DANIEL [SECS. 902-915] 


mind that a quarrel broke out between David andjosiah. As to Abu Nasr 
b. Shu‘ayb, also called Muslim (Meshullam) b. Shu'ayb, he is mentioned 
in a letter of Daniel b. Azariah, from which it emerges that he was one of 
the eminent figures of the community in Tyre. Perhaps he is ‘Meshullam, 
known as ibn Shurayq al-Dimashqf, who dedicates his house in Da¬ 
mascus to the heqdesh before the court of David b. Daniel in Fustat. When 
they learned that David b. Daniel was proclaimed exilarch, the devotees of 
the Palestinian yeshiva in Tyre organised an assembly of opponents, at 
which Zadok b. Josiah preached a sermon, which is preserved in the 
Scroll. 

Another emissary of David b. Daniel to Tyre was Hillel b. al-Jasus 
(jasus: spy). Like Abraham b. Nathan, he also ill-treated Abiathar’s 
brother Solomon, and even tried to kill him! Only that: ‘the Lord saved 
him from his hands’ and ‘they [only] dispossessed him of his house and 
grounds’. Solomon and his family had to flee to the districts of Asher and 
Naphtali (apparently Haifa and Tiberias). The ‘third’, Zadok b. Josiah, 
was also abused by this Hillel. We know of the latter that he was a pupil of 
Rabbenu Nissim. Maimonides mentions him in one of his responsa (not 
by the name of Hillel) and mentions ‘the book he wrote on prayer’. 

At the same time, Sedaqa b. Nufay‘ is also to be found in the region of 
Tyre. The Scroll mentions him as having been helpful to David b. Daniel 
(he was the bearer of the get, the deed breaking off David’s engagement to 
his betrothed in Damira). In a letter written to his father on 28 October 
1090, Sedaqa informs him that he is about to be granted a post in Jubayl, 
evidently on behalf of David b. Daniel. He intends to travel to Acre to 
collect a debt and then to return to Tyre, where he will wed an orphan 
from a poor family, whom he will then bring with him to Fustat. (Appar¬ 
ently the Fatimids still ruled Tyre in the autumn of 1090, and Munir 
al-Dawla had not yet rebelled against them.) 

Hillel b. ‘Eli was also a member of David b. Daniel’s retinue, apparently 
having become his scribe; he was staying there at the time the Fatimids 
took over Tyre. A draft of a letter has been preserved, which he wrote 
from Tyre to Mevorakh b. Saadia, the Nagid, after the victory of Abiathar 
and Mevorakh, that is, apparently in the summer of 1094. It is obvious 
from the letter that Hillel had stayed in Tyre for some months prior to the 
victory. He describes the difficult days he endured in Tyre, where he 
witnessed a great deal of bloodshed. The major burden of the letter 
consists of his joy at Mevorakh’s return to his former status and a vindica¬ 
tion of his own behaviour, as he attempts to convince the addressee that he 
had never been one of David b. Daniel’s followers. He calls the rule of the 

confirmation that cheese being sent for sale is kosher, in his handwriting and with his 

signature, and yesha' yeqiirev is also added here. 


767 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


Fatimids, the rule of righteousness, whereas the rebels were the forces of 
evil. Nevertheless, he admits to a modicum of error, ‘for is there a man 
who has not erred?’ and intends to come to Fustat and serve Mevorakh 
[which indeed occurred] — as he had promised his late brother, that is, 
Judah b. Saadia. 185 

[913] The subsequent events and the complete reversal in the status of 
the Palestinian yeshiva and of Abiathar ha-Kohen, its head, is described at 
the end of the Scroll. The turnabout was naturally the result of Divine 
intervention, and the man who executed the will of God was Mevorakh b. 
Saadia, the ‘Nagid of God’s nation, prince of princes, the might of the 
House of Israel’. ‘He assembled all of Israel’; in other words, it seems that 
indeed, an assembly of representatives of all the communities convened, 
which ‘restored the crown to its original condition like in the days of Ezra 
their forefather, to be maintained in the hands of his progeny’. (That is to 
say, this priestly family claims descent from Ezra the scribe and priest, 
who was also one of the greatest sages of Israel.) Palestine and all the 
countries to its west returned to the authority of the yeshiva, including 
Syria apparently, although the name was not preserved in the manuscript. 
The change for the better in Mevorakh b. Saadia’s standing is already 
described in the first part of the Scroll. The ruler changed his mind and 
Mevorakh was reinstated in his former position: that is, he once more 
became the physician at court. We may assume that both events, the return 
of Mevorakh the Nagid to his former high rank and ‘the restoration of the 
yeshiva’s crown to its former condition’ (and the deposal of David b. 
Daniel, about whom we have no detail from this point onwards), occurred 
within a very short span of time, as Mann also assumed. The date of what 
the Scroll calls ‘the miracle’ is Iyar 1405 Sel., that is, approximately May 

185 The flight of Abraham b. Nathan from Tyre and his return, and the other matters 
concerning Tyre: 559, c, lines 25-30; d, lines 3-4. Daniel b. Azariah’s letter: 347, a, line 10. 
The document of the heqdesh: BM Or 5566 B, f. 7; perhaps that Meshullam is the same as 
Meshullam b. Solomon, mentioned in the letter written by Daniel b. Azariah’s scribe: 
383, line 8. ‘Naphtali’: see Mann, Texts , 1, 249, n. 3: Rakkath in the portion ofNaphtali, 
Joshua, xix:35; BT, Meg. 5b, 6a; ‘Asher’, see Joshua, xix:26: Carmel, the portion of 
Asher; on Hillel ibn al-Jasus see Poznanski, Harkavy Jubilee Volume, 183f; Mairnonides, 
Responsa, II, 582, and see editor’s note 25; Jasus al-Maghribl, evidently his father, is 
mentioned in 80, a, line 24, which is a letter of Solomon b. Judah from 1037. See further 
mention of the name Jasus (Gasus) in Abramson, Nissim Gaon, in the introduction, 25; 
idem, Tnyanot, 267. It should be read Gasus in every instance, not Gasum. The letter of 
Sedaqa b. Nufay‘: 602; it seems that the rayyis mentioned there is not Abiathar as is the 
view of Goitein, BJRL, 54 (1971/2), 101, n. 5, but Abraham b. Nathan, for Sedaqa 
belonged to David b. Daniel’s camp. The late G. Weiss wrote his Master’s thesis on Hillel 
b. ‘Eli, Univ. of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 1967, which includes fifty-seven documents 
written by ‘Eli in his own handwriting. Another Hillel, evidently his grandfather, was 
called ‘the great cantor, crown of the cantors, al-Baghdadl’. See: TS AS 161.45, a 
fragment of a letter from the daughter of this Hillel (i.e., the aunt of our Hillel) to her 
brother ‘Eli; the letter of Hillel b. ‘Eli: 558. 


768 



THE AFFAIR OF DAVID B. DANIEL [SECS. 902-915] 

1094. Evidently the change of heart is connected with the illness of Badr 
al-Jamall, who handed over the affairs of state to his son al-Afdal in March 
or April, 1094. The friendship between the latter and Mevorakh is known 
from one of Geniza texts: ‘Mevorakh ... a Hebrew righteous and pious 
and physician and scholar and advisor to the king (that is, to al-Afdal) . .. 
since his youth . .. and he gave him the title: prince of princes, and made 
him prince over all the children of Israel in his kingdom, and he cherished 
him enormously, and he became like a fortified wall for Israel’. Thus, the 
period of the worst distress for Abiathar and the priestly family lasted for 
some twenty months, from June 1093, when the Fatimids conquered 
Tyre, until April 1094, when al-Afdal became wazir in Egypt. 

A very interesting document has been preserved, which begins shortly 
before David b. Daniel’s downfall and ends after it. This is evidence 
concerning the despatch of a deed of divorce, written in ‘al-Qahira, near 
Zoan of Egypt’, on Tuesday, 18 Shevat 1405 Sel., 7 February 1094, or 
two-and-a-half months before the collapse of David b. Daniel. The state¬ 
ment of evidence is followed by the validation, which is undoubtedly in 
the handwriting of David b. Daniel, without a signature, but with his 
‘aldma, yeshu'a. Further on, on the same sheet, we find an assessment 
written by ‘ Amram ha-Kohen b. R. Aaron s.t. (sofeh tap, ‘may he have a 
good end’, indicating that his father is still alive) b. ‘Amram great- 
grandson of Elijah ha-Kohen bet-din. This is Abiathar’s son-in-law ‘Am¬ 
ram, who, as we see, returned from Damascus and was reconciled with his 
family. He ridicules the formulation in which the evidence was written, 
especially the validation that figures there. This was undoubtedly written 
a short time after the deposal of David b. Daniel in the summer of 1094. 
Hence, we have a document which clearly reflects the Jewish public’s 
change of heart at that time. The reins of leadership and judgment were 
once again in the hands of the Palestinian yeshiva. 186 

186 The reversal: 559, j, lines 7ff. Mevorakh b. Saadia returns to his former status: ibid., c, 
lines 14-15; see Mann, Jews, l, 187-193. Al-Afdal and Mevorakh, see ULC Add 3335, 
edited by Neubauer, JQR, 9(1897), 35f; on al-Afdal’s appointment see: Ibn Khallikan, II, 
450: in the month of RabT I, 487, March-April 1094; Sawlrus, II, 243 (and see the 
translation on p. 389); Ibn al-Sayrafi, 57f; Ibn Zafir, 17. The renewal of the connection 
between the house of the negidim and the Palestinian localities is obvious from 569, the 
letter from Joshua he-haver b. ‘Eli, who is in Caesarea from ca. 1098, to Mevorakh b. 
Saadia, in which he asks for his help with the local rulers in order that he may move to 
Ascalon: 'he-haver ha-me‘ulle , sanhedra rabba, alufha-bmot, Nagid of God’s nation, princeof 
princes, full of all wisdom, banner of God’s nation’. Also mentioned is his late brother 
‘Judah the Nagid of God’s nation’. The record of evidence: TS 28.5. To the documents 
from the period shortly after David’s downfall, one should also add a court document 
which is torn into two fragments: Bodl MS Heb b 13, f. 19, and ENA 2805, f. 15. 
Abraham b. Isaac ha-Talmid is still writing court documents in his own hand; apart from 
his signature, there are those of Nissim b. R. Nehorai the Rav; Isaac ha-melammed b. R. 
Hayyim 


769 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


[914] On 1 Tevet, December 1094 (apparently), eight months after the 
reversal, Musa b. Abi’l-Hayy Khalila, a business partner of Nehorai b. 
Nissim, wrote a letter of congratulations to Abiathar, in which he ex¬ 
presses his joy at the renewal of Abiathar’s status and appreciation of the 
backing he gets from the major figures in Fustat: the Nagid Mevorakh b. 
Saadia, Nehorai b. Nissim and his son Nissim, Apart from the usual 
ornate phrases, such as ‘may God grant a crown to the nation through 
[preserving] your life’, and the like, we find details of the praises which the 
Nagid pours forth regarding Abiathar and his brother, Solomon, the 
av-bet-dm. The letter, which was sent by Abiathar to al-Qahira, was read 
out in the synagogue there and in the synagogue of the ‘Palestinians’ in 
Fustat, and the congregations were delighted with it. The writer of the 
letter was one of the Maghribi merchants, and this also serves as evidence 
that the Maghribis had gone over to Abiathar’s side and had completely 
abandoned David b. Daniel. 

Evidently, the draft of a letter of condolence written by two people of 
Ascalon, Halfon and Joseph, to Abiathar’s son, Elijah ha-Kohen ‘the 
fourth’, in Tyre, also belongs to this period. The expression of condolence 
was over the death of his uncle, his father’s brother, Zadok ha-Kohen b. 
Elijah Gaon. In the letter, not only Abiathar is mentioned but also his 
grandson, son of Elijah ‘the fourth’, as well as ‘Amram ha-Kohen ‘the 
seventh’, Abiathar’s son-in-law. On the verso, Abiathar’s brother, Solo¬ 
mon ha-Kohen, av of the yeshiva, is also mentioned. 

At about the same time, a query was addressed to Nehorai b. Nissim, 
evidently from Malij, in which he is asked to give his opinion on the 
matter of a deed of divorce that has gone astray; in the meantime, 
however, the divorcer has died. The letter mentions applying to the aliif 
ha-blnot (the Nagid Mevorakh b. Saadia), and to the head of the Palestinian 
yeshiva, and suggests that they should look for documents on the divorce 
in the archives of the yeshiva; the archives are in Tyre, however. The court 
in Acre is also mentioned in the letter. 

The events surrounding ‘the miracle’ are very inadequately explained in 
the sources at our disposal and the matter is still extremely obscure. We 
would particularly like to know whether the change of heart was only due 
to the change of rulers or whether there was some internal factor which 
brought about the reversal. Did David b. Daniel fail as the result of some 
crude mistake, or did something happen to him? Perhaps he was forced to 
flee from Egypt and seek refuge in one of the Christian countries, perhaps 
Byzantium? For the time being, we have no answers to these questions. 


NufusI; ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. R. Yafrya. David b. Daniel is not mentioned any longer. The 
date is Tishri, 1406 Sel., that is, September-October AD 1094. 


770 



THE AFFAIR OF DAVID B. DANIEL [SECS. 902-915] 

for David has utterly disappeared from the sources, at the age of about 
thirty-six. 187 

[915] I shall now summarise the major points of the dispute surveyed 
above and try to give some meaning to their contents, principally on the 
basis of that extraordinary document, the Scroll of Abiathar. Naturally, 
this document reflects the spiritual and ideological world of its author, 
Abiathar ha-Kohen. The target of his fire is the exilarchic house. They are 
unsuited to serve as the leaders of the Jews. We find this idea at the 
beginning of the Scroll, presenting the members of that family as ‘sons of 
‘onena’, a hint of their linkage with ‘Anan and the Karaites, ‘forbidden 
idols’, ‘wicked people’ ‘disobeying the Torah’, ‘transgressors’, etc. The 
House of King David, from which the exilarchs claim descent, has pro¬ 
faned its tradition and majesty. This decline of the House of David had 
already occurred in the days of the corrupt kings of Judah, such as Ahaz, 
Manasseh, and the like. The true son of David, the King and Messiah, was 
already born on the day of the destruction of Jerusalem. Contrary to all 
this, the position of the priesthood is preserved in the leadership of the 
nation, according to the highest tradition. 

These arguments, with various additions, are repeated in the Scroll in 
the homily of‘the third’, Zadok b. Josiah. Egypt is not a gold (exile), and 
was never called gold, and there was never an exilarch in Egypt. The only 
place where the terms gold and rdshgold were used was Babylonia, and this 
has been true since the days of Nehemiah. This is followed by a homily on 
the verse: ‘the sceptre shall not depart fromjudah’. The true exilarch, who 
is in Babylonia, has no authority in Palestine. Proof of this is the story of 
Rabba bar-bar Hana. Palestine is no gold and it is impossible to ordain an 
exilarch there, evidently a hint that Daniel, David’s father, could not have 

m The letter of Musa b. Abl’l-Hayy: 551; he is ‘Abu ‘Imran, our Lord and Master Moses 
segullat ha-yeshiva, son of our Master Abu’l-Hayy, of blessed memory’, in a court 
document from 1089, in David b. Daniel’s court: BM Or 5545, f. 7. The letter of 
condolence: 554. The query to Nehorai: 560; it seems that TS 13 J 8, f. 19 belongs to this 
matter (also in the view of Goitein, Mediterranean Society, III, 196f), which is a letter 
containing complaints of Hayfa’ daughter of Sulayman, of Acre, appealing to the haver in 
Mallj about her husband SaTd b. Mu'ammar (Saadia b. Hayyim) al-Qazzaz (the silk 
merchant), who abandoned her and their children; she was forced to flee from Acre to 
Jaffa, whence she reached Egypt, where she learned that her husband was in Mallj with his 
brother; but on arriving in Mallj, she found that he has returned to Palestine; her request is 
that the haver in Mallj write to Palestine and demand that her husband either return to her 
and their son, or give her a divorce. A piyyut ascribed to ‘David the Nasi’ is perhaps the 
work of David b. Daniel, see Bodl MS Heb f 56, f. 35v: ‘Woe to my soul, for I have so 
many complaints . .. therefore, instead of elevating me. He changed my honour into 
shame, and prescribed bitterness for me, of a harsh kind, with a style of iron, with a pen of 
flint’, etc., verses of bitterness and disappointment; which end: ‘my anger is overcome by- 
pain, for I was inclined to conflict’; cf. Mann. Jews, II, 224f; Davidson, Osar, IV, 377; also 
belonging to David b. Daniel, are perhaps three piyyuttm from the Yemenite manu¬ 
scripts edited by Razhabi, Tarbiz, 14(1942/3), 204ff. 


771 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


been an exilarch, because he sat in Palestine, in its yeshiva. There is also a 
hint here that it was improper for David to call himself ‘son of the 
exilarch’. The nasi in Palestine is the one who has the right to decide on 
the calendar order. To prove this, ‘the third’ takes the trouble to survey in 
his homily the history of intercalation from the creation of the world on 
25 Elul, and from the creation of the luminaries on the night before 
Wednesday (the fourth day), 28 Elul. The tradition of intercalation con¬ 
tinues, in his words, from Adam — Enoch — Noah — Shem (who is also the 
first of the priests, Melchizedek) - Abraham - Isaac. Jacob was at first not 
permitted the intercalation, as he was staying outside Palestine. When he 
returned to Palestine he intercalated. Joseph and his brothers also interca¬ 
lated, in Palestine. When they went down to Egypt, the intercalations 
diminished. Between Nisan and Tishri, Moses appointed the Sanhedrin. 
Moses, head of the Sanhedrin, knew the secret of intercalation and passed 
it on: Moses - Joshua - the elders - Othniel b. Kenaz - Pinhas - ‘Eli - 
Samuel - Gad — Nathan - Ahiah of Shiloh - Elij ah - Elisha - Amos — Isaiah 
-Joel -Jeremiah and Zephaniah — Ezekiel and Baruch — Haggai, Zechariah 
and Malachi (who is Ezra the scribe, head of the Great Assembly) - Simon 
the Righteous - Antigonos of Sokho - Yose b. Yo’ezer of Sereda -Joseph 
b. Yohanan ofjerusalem—Joshua b. Perahya and Nitai of Arbel—Judah b. 
Tabai and Simon b. Shattah - Shemaiah and Avtalyon — Yohanan b. 
Zakkai, in whose day the temple was destroyed, in the year AM 4000 
minus 172 (that is, AD 68). From Moses until Rabban Yohanan b. Zakkai, 
the secret of intercalation was only held by the head of the Sanhedrin, and 
so it has been up until the days of our holy Rabbenu (i.e. Judah ha-Nasi). 
For instance: Joshua b. Hanania did not know the secret of intercalation, 
although he was av-bet-din of Rabban Gamaliel. In his desire to sum up all 
that was said, Zadok again stresses the fact that the computation of 
intercalation stretches from the six days of the creation, from Adam. The 
nasi in Palestine is the one who decides on matters of intercalation, and 
Zadok explains: the nesi’Im of Palestine are but the heads of its yeshiva. It 
was only since the scattering of the nation to a diaspora caused so many 
divisions, and the appearance of‘trespassers and ignorant youths’ (such as 
David b. Daniel, he implies), that the secret of intercalation had to be 
passed on to ‘all the sages and the Sanhedrin’, in the days of our holy 
Rabbenu; it is nevertheless the head of the yeshiva, that is, the head of the 
Sanhedrin, who maintains the prerogative to sanctify the year. 

The homily of‘the third’ was a direct attack on the ideas by which David 
b. Daniel sought to achieve the status of world leader of the Jewish 
communities everywhere, namely: (1) the unification around the living 
descendant of King David, during a period when Palestine was at a low 
ebb due to military events and the Saljuqs’ domination of the Holy City; 


772 



THE AFFAIR OF DAVID B. DANIEL [SECS. 902-915] 

and (2) the depreciation of the Palestinian yeshiva and its special status, and 
the removal of the priestly family from the leadership. The attack of the 
‘third’ focuses on the prerogative to intercalate and to sanctify the year 
publicly, which symbolises more than anything else, the legitimacy of the 
Palestinian leadership. The claim of descent from the House of David, on 
the other hand, is absurd, for the entire dynasty of the exilarchs is utterly 
invalid and the true son of David is being kept with God until the right 
moment. 

The Karaites were another objective of the attack. Things were not said 
specifically but by implication. The Scroll mentions the connections be¬ 
tween Daniel b. Azariah and the ‘sect of the sela‘ ’; his son David proclaims 
himself exilarch in collusion with ‘the sons of ‘onena’, and with their 
support. More than that, David married the daughter of one of the Karaite 
leaders. It would not be too far-fetched, then, to assume that his aspir¬ 
ations were to bring the Karaites closer and that they already sided with 
him. He may even have been inclined to make serious concessions in their 
favour. His emissary, Abraham b. Nathan, who seems to have had a 
special relationship with the Karaites, ‘misinterpreted the Torah’. David 
himself is ‘an illiterate, who does not know the secret behind what he tried 
to take upon himself. . . nor does he know of what he is plotting to 
eradicate, whether it is a fundamental principle on which the entire Torah 
is depending or, as seen in the eyes of the fool and ignoramus that he is, it is 
something trivial’. It seems that the reference is mainly to the calendar 
order, that is determining the beginning of the month according to the 
sighting of the new moon, and the leap year according to the avw (the 
ripeness of the grain), as was the Karaite custom. This may have been the 
reason why the ‘third’ devoted a considerable part of his homily to this 
subject. In the main, he discusses the matter for its own sake, as stated, and 
not only to establish proof of the authority of the Palestinian yeshiva. It is 
obvious that implicitly he sought to deny the Karaite argumentation on 
the subject of the calendar, and indirectly also to stifle the tendency to 
compromise with the Karaites in these matters. 

There is no doubt that the extent of the dispute was very widespread and 
that it enthralled many communities. Today, it is difficult to envisage its 
extent and significance. The subject of the exilarchic house, of the strong 
feelings for the alleged scion of the House of King David and the struggle 
against the priestly family who happened to stand at the head of the 
Palestinian yeshiva at the time, all these had no meaning to subsequent 
generations — from then until the present. One can still detect echoes of the 
principles and ideological essence of the dispute in the twelfth century, but 
the matter ended there. Contrary to other subjects of principle pertaining 
to the religion of the Jews, which were entirely relevant throughout the 


773 



THE JEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


generations, these subjects were completely erased from the nation’s 
conscience and even the researcher who studies these worn pages needs to 
make a special mental effort in order to fully grasp their enormous signifi¬ 
cance in those days. Although we must not hasten to see the movement led 
by David b. Daniel as a messianic one, there were in the struggle raging 
around it, the major elements of the polemics between messianism and 
anti-messianism, especially in the claim to the crown of the House of King 
David and in the denial of this claim. However, we do not know whether 
the followers of David b. Daniel attributed messianic qualities to him or 
whether they believed that he was destined to bring about the redemption 
of the Jews in those times of war and sweeping changes. As we have seen, 
it seems that at any rate the outcome of the struggle was not decided by 
ideological argument or successful propaganda, but by entirely mundane 
circumstances. 188 


The yeshiva, last pages 

[916] Apparently, Abiathar ha-Kohen Gaon and the Palestinian yeshiva 
eventually had to leave Tyre behind, close to the time of the Crusaders’ 
conquest. Their move from Tyre is perhaps connected with the events of 
the autumn of 1097 mentioned above. Afterwards, we find Abiathar in 
Tripoli. In a letter dealing with the messianic movement that was stirring 
in Salonika during the first crusade, a letter written by Abiathar to the 
community in Constantinople is mentioned. Was David b. Daniel perhaps 
involved in this movement? Unfortunately we have no details concerning 
it. A financial account written in Fustat in Shevat 1416 Sel., January- 
February AD 1105, recorded the transfer to Abiathar of ninety dinars, of 
which seventy-five were from goods which were sold, and fifteen from 
the income from the house in Fustat which was heqdesh for the Jerusa- 

188 See 559 , a; b, lines 1-8. The homily: ibid., from d, lines 4fif, and see the notes there. The 
connection with the Karaites: ibid., b, line 9; d, line 1; the innovations of Abraham b. 
Nathan: c, line 22; innovations of David: 9, lines 20-21. The intercalation: d, lines 21ff; f, 
lines 7ff. A delayed echo of the polemics on the authority of the Palestinian yeshiva can be 
found in the letter of Daniel b. Hasdai, the exilarch in Baghdad, written in Tishri AM 
4922 (AD 1161); according to him, there was an interruption in the chain of ordainings 
since the death of ‘our Master, our Nasi Daniel head of the yeshiva Ge’on Ya'aqov, of 
blessed holy [qadosh!] memory’; ‘the kohanim appointed after him [that is: Elijah, 
Abiathar] behaved light-heartedly in their ways’. His view is based on the claim that ‘since 
our ancient forefathers’ time, the Palestinian yeshiva had no rights in the land of Egypt, 
for Egypt is foreign land, exactly like Babylonia’. Unlike Daniel b. Azariah, who was ‘in 
his generation like our holy Rabbenu’, those who followed him were intruders; see in 
Assaf, Tarbiz, 1 (3;1929/30), 68-77; cf. Mann, Texts, I, 230f; idem, Jews, I, 190f, ascribed 
these remarks to David b. Daniel, but he later rectified it, see Texts, I, 255. It is interesting 
that this dispute still continues in the ideological arena, in the twelfth century, whereas on 
the other hand we see that they were still copying the Scroll of Abiathar at the time (see the 
introduction to 559 ). 


774 



THE YESHiVA, LAST PAGES [SEC. 916] 


lemites. This document is evidence of how extensive the financial aid was 
that was being sent to the yeshiva. The money was intended for ‘his great 
honour and Sanctity, our Lord and Master Abiathar ha-Kohen, head of the 
yeshiva Ge’on Ya'aqov’. It is not clear where a deed for alimony dated 
September 1102 was written, except for the fact that it was ‘in the council 
of the Grand Court’, which is in the handwriting of ‘Amram ha-Kohen, 
Abiathar’s son-in-law. The name of the city has not been preserved, only 
the words ‘the city situated on the shore of the Great Sea’, and one can fill 
in Tyre or also Tripoli: Sinim). We do not know the date of Abiathar’s 
death. But we do know that he died before the end of 1112, for in a letter to 
his son Elijah, written on T3 Marheshwan 1424 Sel.’, Monday, that is 4 
November AD 1112, it refers to him ‘of blessed righteous memory’. 

From this point onward, news of the yeshiva shrinks to what is con¬ 
tained in two letters. The one, from which a fragment remains, is from 
Abiathar’s successor to the gaonate, his brother Solomon, son of Elijah. It 
deals with the affairs of an abandoned wife. It is dated 23 February 1116, 
and was sent to ‘Ula ha-Levi b. Joseph in Fustat. This ‘Ula, who was a 
well-known parnas in Fustat, was appointed a sort of representative of the 
yeshiva in Fustat. The other letter was written by Meir ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli to 
his brother Tobiah in Egypt. This was a family from Baniyas, known to us 
mainly from the letters of Tobiah ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli. The date of the letter 
is the beginning of September 1127, that is eleven years after the former 
letter. We learn from it that the Gaon (who is Masllah ha-Kohen b. 
Solomon) is in Fustat (‘our Master Gaon’ is mentioned in the letter a 
number of times); possibly this is the first mention of the Gaon staying in 
Fustat, indicating the transfer of the yeshiva. Both letters speak of Hadrak: 
Solomon ha-Kohen marks the end of his letter with the words ‘Hadrak 
Syria’, indicating that he writes from there and that the yeshiva was then in 
Hadrak. Meir ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli also ends his letters with ‘Hadrak, Syria’, 
from which we learn that the yeshiva moved from Tyre to Hadrak. Where 
is Hadrak? It is mentioned in the Bible: ’. . . the land of Hadrack and 
Damascus’ (Zech., ix:l), and in the Sifre on Deuteronomy, the saying of 
R. Yose b. Dormasqlt: ‘Heaven and Earth are my witnesses that I am from 
Damascus and that there is a place there named Hadrak.’ The riddle is 
solved with the help of Meir ha-Kohen’s letter, for the writer says ex¬ 
plicitly that he is staying in Damascus (where he has no livelihood), 
whereas at the end of the letter he states, as aforementioned, that he writes 
from ‘Hadrak Syria’. We therefore understand that Hadrak is merely a 
nickname for Damascus. Implicitly, the view that there was a locality 
named Hadrak where the yeshiva -was located, becomes void. The yeshiva 
was situated in Damascus and remained there until ca. 1120. We find 
Masllah ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon b. Elijah Gaon heading the yeshiva in 


775 



THEJEWISH POPULATION AND ITS LEADERSHIP 


Fustat in the twenties of the century. We have witnessed then, from the 
beginning of the seventies of the eleventh century, the decline and fall of 
the Sanhedrin of Palestine, the central institution of Jewish leadership in 
the countries surrounding the Mediterranean. This process was the un¬ 
avoidable result of the destruction and annihilation of the Jewish popu¬ 
lation in Palestine as a result of the political and military events of the 
period. On foreign soil, the Palestinian yeshiva could not continue to 
preserve its status for very long. Apart from Egypt, the diaspora discon¬ 
tinued its connections with it. It is also possible that its decline was caused 
by the quality of the people at its head, the sons of the priestly family, 
whose annals I have surveyed here. 189 

189 Abiathar’s letter: Bodl MS Heb a 3, f. 27, edited by Neubauer, JQR, 9 (1897), 28, and 
re-edited by Mann, Hatequfa , 23 (1924/5), 253—259. The account: 561, and the matter has 
already been mentioned above. The deed from 1102:606. At about the same time, TS 13 J 
2, f. 1 was written, a fragment from a record of evidence signed by ‘Abiathar ha-Kohen 
called by the name of God, son of a Gaon great-grandson of a Gaon’, and ‘Ula ha-Levi b. 
Joseph, parnas of Fustat (who is Sa‘id b. Munajja) who hailed from Damascus, see on him 
Goitein, Mediterranean Society , II, 78, 81; it was he who is the addressee of 611, discussed 
here below. Abiathar, of righteous blessed memory: 589. Abiathar’s daughter, Sitt 
al-Sada, is mentioned in TS 10 J 4, f. 17, lines 16—17, a deed dated Shevat 1429 Sel., 
January AD 1118; she was married to a certain Abu’l-Makarim, in Fustat. The two letters 
from Damascus: 611, 612. See Sifre on Deuteronomy (Ish Shalom), 65a; (Horowitz- 
Finklestein), 7; Neubauer, La geographic, 297, translated with his own interpretation: une 
localite pres de Damas qui s’appelle Hadrakh; ‘there’, not ‘near*, was what R. Yose said, 
that is, in Damascus. Meir ha-Kohen in Damascus: 612, a, line 31. See further discussion 
on these letters: Poznanski, Rivista israelitica, 7(1911), 222, n. 3; idem, Babylonische Geonitn, 
102, n. 2. Mann, Jews, I, 196, says that Solomon ha-Kohen fled, according to the Scroll of 
Abiathar, to the ‘estate of Asher and Naphtali’, and concluded that the intention was 
Hadrak; see also the formula in Samuel b. ‘Eli’s letter: ‘the holy community who live [in 
the city] of Damascus Hadrak’, in Assaf, Tarbiz, 1 (2—1929/30), 80 (fol. 18a, lines 16-17); 
ibid., (1), 115, 117. Assaf interprets: he speaks about the communities (plural) of Da¬ 
mascus and Hadrak’, for he himself completed the missing part of the formula by ‘in the 
cities’ instead of‘in the city’, also adding ‘and’. 


776 



9 

Karaites and Samaritans 


The house of ‘Anan and the beginning of Karaism 

[917] The Karaites have left a rather substantial record in the sources of the 
period, considering that they were a numerically small segment within the 
Jewish population of Palestine. From the moment they began to arrive in 
Palestine and build their quarter in Jerusalem, they were a constant chal¬ 
lenge to the Jewish population which preceded them, in Jerusalem and in 
Palestine as a whole. Their drive to convert others to their views placed the 
Rabbanite leaders in a defensive position to such an extent that they were 
annually excommunicating them on the Mount of Olives (as I have 
described in sec. 833). On the other hand, however, despite the sharp 
differences, there was collaboration on matters of shared interest, 
especially those relating to taxes. There were also mixed marriages be¬ 
tween Rabbanites and Karaites. As to the Palestinian yeshiva and the 
Jewish population ofjerusalem, they had to turn for political and econ¬ 
omic aid to eminent Karaites in Egypt, who were close to the rulers, 
especially the Tustaris. 

The origins of the Karaites and their early development are shrouded in 
obscurity. The sources which describe these beginnings single out the 
figure of ‘Anan, who is considered the founder of Karaism. He is first 
mentioned in a passage of Natronai b. Hilai, Gaon of Sura (around 865), 
which is included in the Seder of ‘Amram Gaon b. Sheshna, written some 
time after Natronai Gaon’s time, and quoted in connection with the 
Passover Seder. It speaks there of minim (heretics), the pupils of‘Anan and 
the pupils of his grandson Daniel, who (it is not clear which of them: 
‘Anan or Daniel, but we shall see in what follows that it seems to have been 
Daniel) induced them to relinquish the Mishna and the Talmud for a 
Talmud which he himself compiled for them. The existence of a Book of 
Precepts (by ‘Anan?) is quoted there in the name of a certain Eleazar aluf. In 
some of the versions of the Letter of Sherira Gaon, we find that ‘Anan’s 


777 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


defection occurred during the days of Yehudai Gaon b. Nahman, that is 
757-761; it was then that ‘nefaq ‘Anan’, meaning that ‘Anan made his 
appearance, which is about a decade after the Abbasid revolution. Abra¬ 
ham ibn Da’ud, who wrote during the middle of the twelfth century, 
added that ‘Anan stemmed from the exilarchic house and his defection 
came about because he was denied the office of exilarch. 

As to the Karaite sources themselves, QirqisanI says that ‘Anan lived in 
the days of the second Abbasid caliph, the founder of Baghdad, Abu Ja‘far 
al-Mansur (754—775), which fits what has been said above. He stresses the 
conformity between the teachings of‘Anan and those of the Rabbanites, 
even when he wrote things not based ‘in the teachings of the Rabbanites’, 
that is, in the Mishna and the Talmud, and it was found that he had taken 
them from the hizana (that is, the piyyuthn) of Yannai. He emphasises that 
‘Anan had been exilarch and mentions that the Rabbanites tried to kill him. 
Late Karaite tradition preserved ‘Anan’s memory as the founder of Ka- 
raism and notes that he had been an exilarch. Ibn al-Hiti, in the fifteenth 
century, makes such statements about ‘Anan as: he was the first to reveal 
the truth, and exilarch of all the House of Israel. 

We find a more detailed account by a Rabbanite included in the Karaite 
treatise, it is ‘the hilluq [controversy] between the Karaites and the Rabba¬ 
nites’, written by the Karaite Elijah b. Abraham in the first half of the 
twelfth century. Here we learn that ‘Anan was excluded from the exi- 
larchate in favour of his younger brother Hanania because of his wayward 
view’s. This Rabbanite ascribes ‘Anan’s views and those of his followers to 
Zadok and Baitos. His faction recognised him as exilarch. The rulers then 
had him imprisoned and he was to be executed, but a fellow-prisoner, a 
Muslim w r ho was jailed because of his deviation from Islam, advised him 
to proclaim that his movement was a separate religion and hence he would 
not be considered a rebel against the laws of the realm. He followed this 
advice, even resorting to the claim that his computation of the calendar 
w ? as similar to that of the Muslims (the first day of the month defined by 
sighting of the new? moon). This, in addition to an enormous bribe, saved 
his life. A fragment from an anonymous Karaite treatise also adds the 
name of that Muslim who advised ‘Anan so shrewdly: Abu Hanifa, 
al-Nu‘man b. Thabit, the famous Muslim jurist, the founder of the rite of 
Muslim law called by his name. Indeed, there is one principle in his 
teaching, the importance of the ra’y, that is, individual judgment, based on 
analogy and common sense, which is also one of the principles of 
Karaism. 1 

1 See: Seder ‘Amram Gaon, II, 206f- See the matter of the Rabbanite sources on the beginning 
ofKaraism: Poznanski, REJ, 45:176, 1902; see ibid., 191 Tf, the supplement with the sources: 
NatronaiGaon, SaadiaGaon, Dunashb. Labrat, SheriraGaon, Samuel Gaon b. Hofni, and 

778 



THE HOUSE OF‘ANAN AND EARLY KARAISM [SECS. 917-920] 


[918] That there was a strong Muslim influence on the beginnings 
(attributed to ‘Anan) of early Karaism is not in doubt. M. Zucker points to 
a number of common grounds: prayer that was entirely benedictions and 
readings from the Pentateuch and the Psalms, containing no prayers of 
supplication or personal requests for oneself or others; the abolition of the 
idea of impurity of the dead in the diaspora (although later Karaite person¬ 
alities objected to this), as compared with the Muslim belief that a Muslim 
does not defile in his life nor in his death; the prohibition on the drinking of 
wine and other alcoholic beverages in the diaspora; similarity in the 
commandments against incest, in the laws of inheritance and other such 
matters. 

These indications of Muslim influence provoke the need to examine the 
question more profoundly. Did Karaism develop out of the schismatic 
sects which preceded it, with their ancient ideological principles being 
adopted by the Karaites and the Muslims simultaneously, or was this a 
new departure, influenced by the Muslim environment but with motives 
which were intrinsic to Jewish society? This latter view was held by 
I. Friedlander, who considered the upholders of the early Jewish dissident 
sects to be naive and uneducated people who were easily taken in by false 
Messiahs and influenced by the non-Jewish environment, while Karaism 
evolved from learned circles and was essentially an internaljewish move¬ 
ment, although it was also influenced by the Zeitgeist of Muslim society. 


others. From the lists of Karaite nesi’tm (to be discussed below) we know that Daniel was 
‘Anan’s grandson and that he had a son named ‘Anan. Mann, JQR, NS 10 (1919/20), 354, 
has shown that Natronai Gaon refers to the same heretics also in his responsum in Sha'are 
teshiiva. No. 34: minim who on Saturday do not eat Itamin (stew cooked and preserved for 
the sabbath). See the Letter of Sherira Gaon in Ncubauaer, Mediaeval Jewish Chronicles, 1, 
37; Lewin, 107 (‘Anan is missing in the Neubauer edition): see ITarkavy. in Graetz 
(Hebrew), lit, !86f,, Abraham ibn Da’ud (Cohen), 37f. Qirqisani, 1, 2, 14. See the Siddhr 
(Karaite), I, 399. Ibn al-Hiti, 432. The hilluq, in Pinsker, Liqqiite qadmoniyot, I, 103; Pinsker, 
Harkavy, and also Zucker assumed that this account was by Saadia Gaon; see: Poznanski, 
JQR 10(1898), 242; Zucker, Targum, 147. See the matter of Abu Flanifa: Harkavy, JJGL, 
2(1899), 109f; Goldziher, Zahiriten, 3f; idem, Muhammedanische Studien, II, 76t. See the 
anonymous fragment: MS Firkovitch II, No. 3799, fol. 2a, in Mann, Texts, II, 108. Utter 
reservation regarding the sources on ‘Anan is expressed by Nemoy, Low Memorial Volume, 
239; here are his main points: it is difficult to view it as accidental that neither Natronai 
Gaon nor Qirqisani mention that ‘Anan was exilarch or even from the exilarchic family; the 
account about him in the hilluq is not by Saadia Gaon, but by a contemporary of the writer 
of the treatise, in the twelfth century. The stories about ‘Anan’s arrest, about his brother 
Hanania, and similar stories, are merely fiction and illogical; Abraham ibn Da’ud’s account 
is based precisely on these stories in his Sejer ha-qabbala; see especially Nemoy’s reservations 
towards Qirqisani, ibid., 248 and n. 42; according to him the only source that may contain 
some real evidence concerning ‘Anan is the Book of Precepts ascribed to him; from which it 
is only possible to learn that ‘Anan demanded asceticism and radical austerity but there is 
nothing in his views directed against the Rabbanites; nevertheless ‘Anan’s teachings are not 
entirely in accord with the thinking of the yeshiva scholars, therefore Nemoy assumes that 
this was the reason why the Karaites adopted him and made him ‘father of their creed’. 


779 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


especially by its inclination to scepticism and excessive separatism. Poz- 
nanski, in particular, opposed this claim and argued on the basis of 
Qirqisanf s account, that ‘Anan was but a link in a chain, preceded by 
people of earlier dissenting sects, such as the messianic movement in 
Isfahan, and by Abu ‘Isa (in ‘Abd al-Malik’s time: 685-705) and his pupil, 
Yudghan. They recognisedjesus and Muhammad as prophets sent to the 
gentiles, and the Arab sources state that ‘Anan also followed in their 
footsteps in this respect. 

Here we must take a closer look at the Muslim sources. A Muslim 
writer who was a contemporary of Qirqisanl, Mas'udt, spoke of the 
‘Ananites as variants of Mu'tazilites among the Jews, people of al-‘adl 
wa’l-tawhid ; that is, they stood for the principle of Divine justice (God is 
good and just, whereas evil stems from man, who is responsible for it) and 
the principle of the absolute unity of God. They only accept the Bible (the 
tawrah and the Prophets and al-zubur [Psalms], which constitue twenty- 
four books). He also knows that a faction of the ‘Ananites - who are the 
followers of‘Anan, one of the exilarchs in Babylonia — and the Karaites as 
well, are setting the date of Passover according to the ripeness of the grain, 
which they call abib. Some of them also accept a partial ripening of the 
grain. Here we already find a distinction between diverse Karaite factions, 
and especially between ‘Ananites and Karaites. 

Blrunl, writing in ca. 1000, informs us that the Karaites are also called 
miladiyya (people of the new moon) or ashma'iyya (people of the tradition) 
for they are meticulous about starting the month with the appearance of 
the new moon (he meant: on sighting the new moon) and because they 
only obey the text of the Bible (al-nusus). Among them, there is a faction 
called the ‘Ananites, after ‘Anan the exilarch, who lived a little more than a 
century earlier. Here Birum quotes ‘Anan’s lineage: b. Daniel b. Saul b. 
‘Anan b. David b. Hasdai b. Qafnai b. Bustanai, etc.; he was therefore of 
the sixth generation after Bustanai. (Qafnai, who is Kafnai, was, accord¬ 
ing to all exilarch lists, the father of Bustanai, and not his son.) Blrunl also 
does not know anything substantial about ‘Anan’s beliefs except that he 
adhered to Muslim custom with regard to the months (the sighting of the 
moon) and intercalated according to the abib. He further adds details about 
the gravity with which the ‘Ananites keep the sabbath, which according to 
them, takes precedent even over circumcision. 

In ShahrastanI (who wrote in the first half of the twelfth century but 
used older sources) there are details on ‘Anan the exilarch, concerning the 
differences in the calendar and the laws regarding food. In addition, he 
describes the way the ‘Ananites slaughter: by killing the animal at the back 
of the neck. He also mentions their attitude tojesus, whom they consider a 
righteous man but not a prophet; further, they deny that the Gospels were 



THE HOUSE OF 'ANAN AND EARLY KARAISM [SECS. 917-920] 

books that were handed down from Heaven, as they were compiled by 
four of Jesus’ own disciples. 

MaqrizI, who wrote his great book on Egypt at the beginning of the 
fifteenth century, knew the Karaites in Egypt, but he also had before him 
the writings of his predecessors, hence his account is a mixture of personal 
knowledge and information copied from earlier sources. The essence of 
his account can be summed up as follows: The Karaites do not accept the 
Talmud but only the Bible, as they were taught by ‘Anan the exilarch. 
They are called people of the Bible as well as ‘people of the beginnings’ (he 
seems to have read mabadiyya instead of miladiyya, people of the new 
moon, as in Blruni); and also ‘people of the tradition’ ( al-asma‘iyya , as in 
Birum). He presents the ‘Ananites, undoubtedly under the influence of his 
early sources, as a sect which differs from the Karaites. They are so-called 
after ‘Anan, the exilarch, who lived at the time of al-Mansur (754—775; the 
same information is found in Qirqisani). He argued that the beginning of 
the month should be fixed by the sighting of the new moon, and the 
intercalation, according to the state of the barley grains; he spoke well of 
Jesus and recognised Muhammad as a prophet sent to the Arabs; he states 
that the ‘Ananites are people of ‘adl and tawhid (like the Mu‘tazilites, as 
Mas‘udi also writes) and they reject anthropomorphism ( tashbih). 

One may sum up the information in the Arab sources in ten main points: 
(1) in general, they speak of ‘Ananites, not of Karaites; Mas‘udi and 
MaqrizI divide them into two separate sects altogether; (2) ‘Anan was 
exilarch, and Birum even sets the time during which he held office; (3) they 
only recognise the Bible; (4) they resemble the Mu‘tazilites (‘adl, tawhid}-, 
(5) they fix the beginning of the month only according to the sighting of 
the new moon; (6) they intercalate according to the state of the abib-, (7) 
they have their own laws regarding food and slaughtering; (8) they have a 
positive attitude towards Jesus, but he is not a prophet in their view; (9) 
they recognise Muhammad as a prophet sent to the Arabs; and (10) they 
reject anthropomorphism. 2 

2 On the common elements of Islam and Karaism: Zucker, Targum, 144ff; idem., Sura , 
2(1954/6), 324—331, where there is a discussion on the Karaite use of the Islamic ta’wil and 
qiyas; Poznanski, REJ, 44(1902), 178; Friedlander, JQR, NS 1(1910/1), 214; see Mas‘udT, 
Tanbih, 112f, 219; Blruni, 58f, 283; perhaps the ‘Anan he mentions, who he says lived in the 
ninth century, is ‘Anan II, b. Daniel, the great-grandson of‘Anan I. ‘Anan II was the cousin 
(and contemporary) of the nest’im Jehoshaphat and Semah who headed the Palestinian 
yeshiva. See the genealogical list below, in the note to sec. 927. See ShahrastanI, 167; his 
account was copied by Abu’l-Fida’, Mukhtasar , I, 86f. MaqrizI, Khitat , III, 326, mentions 
the dayyan (qadt) of the Karaites in his day: Ibrahim b. Faraj Allah b. ‘Abd al-Kafi; he was 
from the House of David ( Da’itdi ), i.e. belonged to the exilarchic house, being a descendant 
of‘Anan (‘ Andni ); he mentions these details in the chapter on the mosque of Ibn al-Banna’, 
near the Zuwayla Gate in al-Qahira, which according to the Karaites had formerly been 
their synagogue, but al-Hakim had confiscated it during the persecution; the synagogue 
was called after Shem the son of Noah, who according to Karaite tradition, was buried 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


[919] Above we have seen the continual distinction between the ‘Ana- 
nites and the Karaites in the Muslim sources. A similar distinction is also 
adopted in Qirqisanf s account. He states that there were Karaites who 
called ‘Anan ‘head of the fools’ ( kesilim - a pun on the Hebrew word for 
learned: masktlhn) and viewed his teaching as if it were the same as that of 
the Rabbanites. Not only was he not a prophet, but he was mistaken in 
many things; from the very outset, his path was that of the Rabbanites. 
This is said more explicitly by Salmon b. Yeruhim in his commentary to 
Psalms (lxix: 1). According to him, the Karaites appeared on the scene only 
after Benjamin al-Nihawandi, that is, more than a century after ‘Anan. 
Harkavy has already pointed out that the only Gaon (as far as writings of 
the geonim have been preserved) who mentions ‘Anan, before Saadia 
Gaon, is Natronai Gaon in the latter half of the ninth century, more than a 
hundred years after ‘Anan. To this Birum’s account should be added, that 
‘Anan lived somewhat more than a century earlier, that is, in the latter half 
of the ninth century; as well as the fact that (according to our information) 
two of ‘Anan’s descendants, Jehoshaphat and Semah, sons of Josiah, 
headed the Palestinian yeshiva until some 100 years after ‘Anan (until the 
sons of Semah were deposed). The conclusion one may arrive at, at least in 
the form of a working hypothesis, is that the formative stage of the Karaite 
movement only began in the latter half of the ninth century and that it was 
only during that period that the Karaites and the descendants of‘Anan, the 
nesf Im, became associated with one another. From then onward, things 
were projected backwards, the new movement discovering an early foun¬ 
der in ‘Anan who may have been a deposed exilarch of the eighth century. 
This crystallisation was preceded by the secession of another descendant of 
‘Anan’s family, Daniel, mentioned by Natronai Gaon, evidently ‘Anan’s 
grandson, who lived in the first half of the ninth century. Apparently, he is 
the same Daniel of whom Sherira Gaon says in his Letter that he was the 
rival of David over the office of exilarch, the latter being the victor. He is 
also the Daniel of whom Dionysius of Tel Mahre (copied by Michael the 
Syrian and Bar Hebraeus) says that the Babylonians wanted as exilarch, in 
opposition to David, who was supported by the Palestinians (the ‘Tiber- 
ians’); and further that Daniel stemmed from the ‘Ananites, who sanctified 

there; Maqrlzl notes that this is a folk legend which is not true. The mosque of Ibn 
al-Banna’ and its Karaite connections also drew the attention of Goldziher. He even notes in 
one of his articles that this mosque was a relatively late structure, built in around 1800; the 
Jews of Cairo did not know, writes Goldziher, that there was a Karaite synagogue there at 
one time; see his paper in Globus, 71(1897), 235f; see in Maqrlzl, on the Karaites and 
‘Ananites, Khitat, III, 370ff, 375. Different information on the Karaite attitude to Mu¬ 
hammad is found in Abu Bakr ibn al-‘ArabI, who took it from his contemporary, a 
member of the Tustari family, who was evidently Sahl b. Fadl (Yashar b. Hesed), the 
Karaite writer who described it to him in Jerusalem, ca. 1095; it emerges that Sahl denied 
that Muhammad was a prophet altogether; see Rilila , 81 f. 


782 



THE HOUSE OF ‘ANAN AND EARLY KARAISM [SECS. 917-9201 

Wednesday instead of Saturday. It was due to this dispute, according to 
him, that al-Ma’mun decreed that the Jews (and the Christians and the 
Zoroastrians as well) be permitted to secede from the main body of their 
persuasion and establish a separate congregation, even if this consisted of 
only ten souls. Apparently, one cannot rely on the account of Dionysius 
concerning the division between the two camps (Palestine versus Babylo¬ 
nia) or the sanctification of Wednesday which he attributes to the ‘Ana- 
nites. We should also bear in mind that my present discussion is necessarily 
brief and that there remains ample reason to probe deeeper into further and 
more detailed aspects of the subject, such as the matter of the Book of 
Precepts ascribed to ‘Anan, for instance. 3 

[920] If indeed Karaism - as it is known to us from tenth and eleventh 
century sources - was born out of the fusion of two elements, a dissident 
sect which held different views from those of the majority of thejews, and 
a branch of the exilarchic family, the question is still unanswered as to 
what was the nature of this dissenting sect and where did it begin. This is a 
subject that is still clouded and this is not the place to enlarge on it. It is 
worth noting, however, that the early formulation of Karaite teaching 
took place in the Persian areas of the caliphate. Some hundred years after 
‘Anan, Benjamin al-Nihawandi (Nihawand, some forty miles south of 
Hamadan), was active. It is this period, the latter half of the ninth century, 
which was evidently the genuine period of Karaite formation. One should 
recall that this was the period in which thejewish population of Palestine 
was struggling over the gaonate and the forefathers of Aaron b. Meir 

i Qirqisam, 3, 5, 624. Salmon b. Yeruhim (Marwick), 98. The matter of the history of the 
Karaites and the place occupied by ‘Anan has been widely discussed in the research 
literature. See Harkavy, REJ, 5(1882), 209; idem in Graetz (Hebrew), III, 187f; Poznanski, 
REJ, 45(1902), 50, and see ibid., 191; where he quotes examples from an anonymous 
polemical anti-Karaite treatise on the conformity between the view of‘Anan and Rabbanite 
halakha. See also: Markon, Festschrift M. Schaeffer: 130, and see there references to earlier 
studies; Klar, Tarbiz, 15(1943/4), 36t'f, who also has a discussion on ‘Anan’s Book of 
Precepts; on the same matter, see Epstein, Tarbiz, 7(1935/6); 283; see the discussion in 
Mann, Texts, II, 129-132. The matter of the dispute between David and Daniel: Sherira 
Gaon, Letter, 1 lOf; Dionysius, copied by Michael the Syrian, 517 (text); III, 65 (translation); 
and by Bar Hebraeus (Abbeloos), 366. See supra, sec. 732. BIrum, 283, ascribes the 
sanctification of Wednesday to ‘the sect of the caves’ ( al-maghariyya , which is the correct 
reading) which is also mentioned by Qirqisam, see his Index. Cf. Ben-Sasson, Zion, 15 
(1950), 42ff, who also stressed the difference between ‘Anan and the Karaites, but his view 
of the four stages of development of Karaism is somewhat shaky, as the Arabic source 
(Salmon b. Yeruhim) which he quotes, does not use ‘revealed’ as distinct from ‘appeared’, 
the distinction being only the product of Pinsker’s Hebrew translation; the original text 
says throughout: zaharu. A book which is a monograph on Karaism was written by R. 
Mahler: Di Karaimer (Yiddish), N.Y. 1947, also extant in Hebrew: ha-qard’Tm, Merhavia 
1949; a thorough and basic work of research, however, which should carry on a more 
profound study on the Karaites, must be based as far as possible on a thorough knowledge 
of the Arab sources, both of the Karaites themselves and of the Muslims. Information 
on sources and research on Karaism and on Karaite personalities can be found 


783 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


fought with ‘the sons of‘Anan’, that is Jehoshaphat and Semah, sons of 
Josiah, and the sons of Semah, who as we have seen were deposed. This 
was also the juncture at which the Isma'IlI movement in Islam was formed 
and in which the Qarmatis and the Fatimids first appeared on the historical 
horizon. I have already reviewed (secs. 462-466) the rise of these two 
dissident movements, particularly during the last decade of the ninth 
century. Evidently it was also the period which witnessed the rise of the 
Karaites in Palestine. 4 

Karaism in Palestine in the tenth century 

[921] The central Karaite figure at that time was Daniel al-Qumisi. This 
was the period of flourishing Karaite propaganda, which tried to make 
converts everywhere, arousing opposition to the point of being excom¬ 
municated. It seems that following the example of the Isma‘llls, there 
evolved the figure of the preacher trying to convert souls to the true path. 
Among the Isma'IlIs, these missionaries were called da'T, and it is reason¬ 
able to assume that the designation Karaites had a similar meaning, for qara 
{nomen agentis) is the translation of da‘i, ‘the caller’. Isma‘IlI influence on 
Daniel al-Qumisi can be clearly seen in a passage from his commentary on 
Leviticus: ‘know ye, that God’s Torah is likened to water, and those who 
taught knowledge (mas kilim ) were the prophets, who possessed knowl¬ 
edge, knowing the Bible in all its aspects, why such a thing is written as it 
is, and not otherwise. Therefore, it is to them that God gave the Torah, 
some of which is overt and explicit, but some is hidden and unseen’. This 
is in fact the very theory of zahir and batin, the overt and the covert, which 
the Isma'IlIs held with regard to the Koran. 

Very few details are known about Daniel al-Qumisi. He was born in 
Damghan, a city in the district of Qumis, in the Tabaristan province of 
northern Persia (the area of the Caspian Sea). He apparently stayed for 
some time in Khurasan and afterwards emigrated to Palestine and settled 
in Jerusalem. His commentary to the Book of Daniel contains a descrip¬ 
tion of the events of the latter half of the ninth century, especially those 
connected with the Saffarid dynasty, which ruled Khurasan and other 
parts of Persia. These events occurred before 875. He also mentions Qarin, 

in Ankori, Karaites in Byzantium , using the detailed Index at the end of the volume. See the 
total reservations concerning ‘Anan’s Karaism: Nemoy, Low Memorial Volume: 239. 

4 On Nihawand, see: Le Strange, Lands, 196. Yefet b. ‘Alt speaks in his commentary to the 
Song of Sol., ii: 15 (little foxes), on new Muslim rulers who would arise in the realm of 
Islam, who will send du'dh - ‘callers’, i.e. preachers, missionaries; these rulers would 
decimate the Children of Israel - by which it seems that he means the Karaites; see BM Or 
2520, 60a. See also Hirschfeld, in his introduction to the commentary on Nahum by Yefet 
b. ‘All, 8ff, who points to the messianic hopes expressed by Yefet, evidently in connection 
with the rise of the Qarmatis. 


784 



KARAISM IN PALESTINE IN THE TENTH CENTURY [SECS. 921-925] 


a local ruler in Tabaristan, who was involved in these events. On the basis 
of these facts, H. Ben-Shammai assumes that Daniel al-QumisI arrived in 
Palestine in about the year 880. It was Daniel al-QumisI who rendered 
Karaism the character it assumed from then onward, which can be 
summed up in three principles, as M. Zucker proposed: the utter exclusion 
of all Rabbanite teachings, the actual return to Palestine, and accepting 
ways of asceticism and mourning. Mas‘udl mentions a Jewish scholar 
named David al-QumisI, who lived in Jerusalem and died there in AH 334 
(which began on 13 August AD 945). If we assume that David is Abu 
Sulayman (which is almost certain) we shall find the same David al- 
Qurnisi mentioned in two Karaite Bible commentaries (one of them by 
Yefet b. ‘All). He may have been Daniel’s son. Daniel al-QumisI is worth 
recalling here in particular, because of his propaganda for emigrating to 
Palestine, which expressed the aspiration to establish and consolidate a 
Karaite settlement in Jerusalem (a matter I have discussed in secs. 
824-827). 

It is likely that the close contact with Palestine, and the formation of the 
Karaite sect there, had a very profound influence on the ideo-theological 
contents of Karaism. According to the assumption proposed by the 
French scholar, P. Andre, the first Karaites who came to Palestine were 
deeply affected by the writings of the Judaean Desert sect which they 
found in Jerusalem. We learn about the finding of these writings at that 
time in Jerusalem, from a letter of the Nestorian catholicus of Baghdad, 
Timotheus, to Sergius, the priest in charge of the Elam area, from about 
815. In that letter, he tells about a discovery ‘ten years earlier’ of books in a 
cave near Jericho. A Bedouin hunter’s dog was chasing after some animal, 
followed it into a cave and did not return. Its owner followed it into the 
cave and found a little room hewn out of the rock, containing many 
books. The hunter told this to the Jews of Jerusalem, who came there en 
masse and found books of the Bible, as well as other books written in 
Hebrew script. The Jew who told this to Timotheus was a learned and 
erudite man and Timotheus was in the habit of questioning him about 
passages in the New Testament which are said to be in the Bible, but 
which are not to be found there, either in the Christian version, or in that 
of thejews. The Jew would tell him in such instances, that such passages 
were to be found in the writings discovered in the cave. From this story, 
one can understand that thejews of Jerusalem rejected those writings, 
which were evidently part of the literature of the Judaean Desert sect, 
which is now known to us. One may assume that with the arrival of the 
first Karaites in Jerusalem, they found these books, which they then 
adopted, copied and distributed. In particular, they seem to have taken the 
book of the Damascus Covenant for their own, and it was evidently 


785 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 

through the Karaites that this treatise, found in the Judaean Desert, 
reached the Cairo Geniza. This may be the possible explanation for the 
presence of ideas and concepts from the literature of the Judaean Desert 
sect in the writings of Daniel al-QumisI and other early Karaite writers, 
like the use of such expressions and terms as: covert and overt Torah (we 
have seen that this idea may have stemmed from the Isma'ilTs), doresh 
ha-tdra, shuv el torat Moshe, masktl, mdresedeq, derekh emet, ‘aniyeha-so’n, the 
two messiahs, temime derekh. These and other analogies are mentioned in 
the studies of N. Wieder, especially with regard to the attitude to ad¬ 
versaries: save ha-derekh, doreshe halaqot, massigegeviil, mate‘e Isra’el, and so 
on. 5 

5 See the detailed survey on Daniel al-Qumisi and his writings in Mann, Texts, II, 8ff; see 
Ben-Shammai, Shalem, 3 (1980/81), 295-305; Zucker, Albeck Jubilee Volume, 378ff. See 
Mas‘udl, Tanbih, 113; Abu Sulayman: Poznanski ,JQR, 8(1896), 681. See fragments from 
Daniel's commentaries: Markon, Korespondenzblatt, 1927, 26-29; see Daniel al-Qumisi’s 
Pitrotr, see the article on Daniel al-Qumisi’s propaganda, by Zucker, Targurn , 168ff. See 
ibid. , 176ff, Daniel al-Qumisi’s Arabic letter from the Geniza, which contains mainly the 
themes of the uniqueness of God, reward and penance, and the matter of the ‘adl and tawhtd , 
the principles of the Mu'tazilites; and ibid., 184ff, fragments of Daniel al-Qumisfs com¬ 
mentaries. Concerning the matter of overt and covert Torah, see a fragment from Daniel’s 
commentary to Leviticus, in Wieder , Judean Scrolls, 59f. (TS Loan 199, edited earlier by 
Ginzberg, Ginze Schechter, II, 471ff, and see ibid. , 473f); see arguments against ascribing the 
Pitron to Daniel al-Qumisi: Marwick, SBB, 5(1961), 42ff, and the answer: Wieder, Judean 
Scrolls, 265ff; and see on Daniel al-Qumisi also: Nemoy, Karaite Anthology, 30-41. His 
letter which urges the Karaites to emigrate to Palestine, was first edited by Mann, JQR, NS 
12(1921/2), 257-298, where he did not identify the author at first, but after studying 
Daniel’s Pitron, he recognised that he was the author of the letter, see idem, Texts, II, 5. 
Timotheus’ letter: Braun, Oriens Christianus, 1(1901), 299-313; cf. Paul, Ecrits, 94ff; and on 
this matter, of early discoveries of the writings of the Judaean Desert sect, see also: 
Eissfeldt, TLZ, 74(1949), 597ff, who, apart from the matter of Timotheus’ letter, also 
quotes a fragment of Eusebius’ Ecclesiasticae historiae (IV, 16), relating to the year AD 217 
and referring to the translation of Psalms which Origenes appended to his Hexapla, which 
wasfoundin an urn in Jericho. See also: DeVaux, RB, 57(1950), 417ff(I shall not enter into 
a detailed discussion here on the question of the ‘sect of the caves’ [al-maghariyya] men¬ 
tioned by QirqisanI and some Arab writers, which is an important subject on its own). 
Regarding the matter of the impact of thejudaean Desert scrolls on the moulding of Karaite 
thought in the ninth and tenth centuries, there are some remote echoes in this passage of the 
Rabbanite Moses b. Hasdai Taku, written about the middle of the thirteenth century: ‘and 
we have already heard from our scholars that ‘ Anan the heretic and his friends were writing 
heretic things and lies and burying them in the earth and afterwards they would dig them 
up and say: this is what we found in ancient books’. It is impossible to identify the channels 
through which such accounts moved down the centuries, but at any rate, they are 
noteworthy. See Kirchheim, Osar neltmdd, 3(1859/60), 62. Rabin. Qutnran Studies, 112, 
totally rejects the information in Timotheus’ letter, because the matter of the books in the 
cave is not mentioned in any Jewish source; obviously this kind of argument cannot stand 
up to criticism. Some years before the publication of Paul’s book, Naphtali Wieder wrote 
in his book The Judean Scrolls and Karaism similar things about the analogous views and 
concepts in the writings of thejudaean Desert sect and in Karaite literature. Although it is 
clear from Paul’s bibliographical notes that he was acquainted with Wieder’s book (which 
was published in 1962, while Paul’s book was published in 1967), he does not mention it in 
his discussion on the analogies. 


786 



KARAISM IN PALESTINE IN THE TENTH CENTURY [SECS. 921-925] 


[922] Daniel al-Qumisi, on occasion, mentions in his writings that the 
Muslims help the Karaites and that it was due to them that the Karaites 
were given the opportunity to rise and go to establish a foothold in 
Jerusalem. One should perhaps take these words at their face value; with 
the view that whereas this was not possible during the reign of the former 
rulers, the Christians, Jerusalem was now open to them: ‘the kingdom of 
Ishmael. . . always helps the Karaites to keep [the precepts] as in the Torah 
of Moses, therefore we have to say benedictions for them’; ‘they love those 
who guard [the custom of] fixing the months according to the moon; 
why, therefore, should you fear the Rabbanites?’. Mann assumed that one 
can learn from these sayings, that Karaite propaganda to establish a 
community of their own in Jerusalem moved forward at full swing with 
the advent of the Tulunids’ control of Palestine, for it is they who were 
willing to help the Karaites. These are things that are difficult to prove or 
deny, however. Mann adds that afterwards, when the Abbasids returned 
and once again took over Palestine, the people of the Palestinian yeshiva 
hastened to apply to Baghdad in order to obtain the caliph’s backing in 
their opposition to the Karaites, being assisted by the Jewish notables in 
Baghdad, as mentioned in the letter of the Palestinian Gaon during the 
calendar dispute. In this matter, it is also impossible to find confirmation 
in the sources of any real connection between the political and military 
changes in Palestine and the ‘Jewish wars’ waged at the time. Moreover, 
according to the information at our disposal concerning similar situations 
during the eleventh century, it seems that both sides were all too familiar 
with the ways and means of influencing the rulers, both in Egypt and in 
Baghdad. 6 

[923] In the tenth century, there were a number of Karaite personalities 
who lived and were active in Palestine, becoming famous mainly for their 
Bible commentaries. The first of these was Salmon b. Yeruhim (Sulaym 
b. Ruhaym). The fact that he was an inhabitant of Jerusalem is conspicu¬ 
ous in a number of passages in his commentaries, especially in his reactions 
to the scheming of the Byzantines and the Arabs and his complaints 
against the defilers ofjerusalem. According to the chronicle of Ibn al-Hiti, 
however, he was one of the Karaite scholars of Babylonia and lived in 
Aleppo, where he indulged in theological controversies with Saadia Gaon. 
Ibn al-Hiti also mentions that Saadia Gaon participated in his funeral and 
that his grave is well known in Aleppo ‘to this very day’. Poznanski and 
Mann treated this information concerning Aleppo and Saadia Gaon very 
sceptically; but Mann was prepared to accept the possibility that Salmon 

6 See in Daniel al-Qumisl’s letter: Mann, JQR, NS 12 (1921/2), 285f; see Mann’s assump¬ 
tions regarding the Tulunids: Jews, I, 62f. The Gaon’s letter: Guillaume, JQR, NS 
5(1914/5), 554f; Bornstein, Sokolow Jubilee Volume, 63. 


787 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


had lived in Aleppo towards the end of his life. Apart from his Bible 
commentaries, Salmon wrote a polemical work against Saadia Gaon - in 
rhyme - known as the Book of the Wars of the Lord. His commentaries 
also contain sharp attacks on Saadia Gaon, and he speaks of him dis¬ 
dainfully: ‘I knew in the days of my life a man known by the nickname 
al-Fayyumf , 7 

[924] Abu Surri Sahl ha-Kohen b. Masliah was a contemporary of 
Salmon b. Yeruhim, though somewhat younger. He also wrote Bible 
commentaries, a book of precepts, remnants of which have been pre¬ 
served, especially the introduction written in Hebrew, a book of laws 
(which has been lost), and a grammar. His ‘epistle of rebuke’, also in 
Hebrew, is of particular significance. This is a disputatious treatise against 
Jacob b. Samuel, who may have been a pupil of Saadia Gaon (Sahl calls 
him: ‘Your Master Saadia the Pithomite’, but one cannot say whether he 
meant an actual pupil). In this epistle Sahl twice stresses that he stemmed 
from bet-ha-miqddsh, meaning Palestine. Apparently he came to Fustat to 
convert people to Karaism: ‘to caution my nation’. Evidently thatjacob b. 
Samuel was one of thejewish leaders in Fustat. Apart from the latter, Sahl 
came up against the resistance of another Fustat personality whose name is 
not mentioned, merely: ‘the enemy who angers’. Sahl was evidently the 
author of ‘the answers to Jacob b. Samuel, the obstinate’, a treatise in 
rhyme which the Karaite copyist ascribes to Yefet b. ‘All; a fact which 
Mann has proven by the similarity of expressions in the ‘epistle of rebuke’ 
and in this work. 8 

[925] Yefet ha-Levi b. ‘All, who is Abu ‘All al-Hasan ibn ‘All al-Basri 
(that is, he hailed from Basra in Iraq), wrote in the latter half of the tenth 
century, and also mainly produced Bible commentaries. He was the most 


7 On Salmon sec: Poznanski, Encyclopaedia Osar Isrd’el, s.v.; idem, Yerushalayim (Luncz), 
10(1913/4), 95; Ibn al-HItl. 434, 441; Mann, Texts, II, 18ff.; see Feuerstein’s introduction to 
the edition of Salmon’s commentary on Lament.; see further Steinschneider, Polemische und 
apologetische Lit., 346; Harkavy, ZAW, 1(1881), 157; Poznanski, JQR, 8(1896), 689 (he 
shows that Salmon was much younger than Saadia Gaon, thus suggesting that it was not 
likely that Saadia was his pupil, as some Karaite sources claim). His knowledge of the 
surroundings of Jerusalem and the Dead Sea, which I mentioned (on the basis of his 
commentary on Eccl., above, in sec. 311) also goes to prove that he was a denizen of 
Jerusalem. On his writings see: Poznanski, JQR, 18(1905/6), 220; his Book ofthe Wars of the 
Lord was edited by Davidson, NY 1934, see ibid., in the introduction, some details on 
Salmon’s life. Thepiyyutlm at the beginning of the book are defined by Fleischer, Settimane 
(Spoleto 1978), 840, as being of the musammat type. See on Salmon also: Nemoy, Karaite 
Anthology, 68. 

8 On Sahl b. Masliah see Poznanski, Yerushalayim (Luncz), 10(1913/4), 97—100; Mann, Texts, 
II, 22-29. His introduction to the Book ofPrecepts was edited by Harkavy, Me’assef I, No. 
13. The ‘epistle of rebuke’: Pinsker, Liqqiite qadmoniyot, II, 24ff; see the detailed discussion 
on the epistle: Harkavy, ZAW, 1(1881), 157; see also: Poznanski, JQR, 18(1906), 238; 
Nemoy, PAAJR, 38-39:145, 1972. On ‘the enemy who angers’, see the discussion in 


788 



KARAISM IN PALESTINE IN THE TENTH CENTURY [SECS. 921-925] 

prolific of the Karaite Bible commentators. His works also include a literal 
Arabic translation of the Bible, and a book of precepts, which has not been 
preserved. On the basis of the colophon at the beginning of a manuscript 
containing his commentaries of the Song of Solomon and Ruth, Nemoy 
assumed that he was still alive in the year 1005. This colophon states that it 
is the work of Abu ‘All al-Hasan (Yefet) b. ‘All al-Basri, and adds after his 
name the blessing ‘May the Lord give him His support’ (ayyadahu Allah), 
indicating that he was still alive. The date was read as 395 but it seems to 
me that it should be read as wa-sab‘Tn (not wa-tis‘m), that is AH 375, which 
is AD 985/6. Another of Yefet’s treatises was a polemical work against 
Saadia Gaon, a work he mentions in his commentary to Exodus, xxxv:3. 
Apparently Yefet lived in Jerusalem most of his life and one can assume 
that he also died there. 

His son, Abu Sa‘id Levi ha-Levi, also lived injerusalem. He too wrote a 
book of precepts, which has been preserved in a Hebrew version. We 
know the names of his three sons, Isaiah, Azariah and Hananiah. Levi b. 
Yefet lived and worked at the beginning of the eleventh century. The year 
397 ‘of the little horn’, that is, of the Muslim era, which began on 27 
September 1006, is noted in his book of precepts. His name is also to be 
found in several colophons in his father’s Bible commentaries, stating that 
his son Levi dedicated them to the Karaite congregation (in Ramla or 
Jerusalem), and they also mention Sha'ya b. Salah (Salih?) b. Azariah 
(perhaps the great-grandson of Levi b. Yefet). 

Other contemporaries of Yefet b. ‘Alt and his son Levi were the Bible 
commentators Joseph b. Bakhtawayh and his pupil, the grammarian Sa‘Id 
Shiran. Joseph b. Bakhtawayh was evidently one of the heads of the 
Karaite congregation injerusalem; he was a wealthy man, and there is 
mention of his hash, that is a housing compound, which he owned in 
Jerusalem. 

From what has been said until now, it emerges that from the end of the 
ninth century, with the arrival of Daniel al-QumisI in Palestine, until the 
end of the tenth century, Palestine served as a spiritual centre for the 
Karaites. Apparently this was where the fundamental principles of their 
teachings and views crystallised. The greatest and most important of their 
spiritual leaders, Bible interpreters and grammarians lived and worked in 
Palestine. There is no doubt that this fact proves that the Karaites suc¬ 
ceeded in reaching the target they set for themselves when first advocating 
emigration to Palestine - to set up a strong Karaite community there, 
particularly injerusalem. This community was indeed established, with 

Mann, Texts, 23, n. 42. The treatise in rhyme: Pinsker, Liqqiite qadmoniyot, II, 18-24; 

Mann, Texts, 26f. 


789 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


the best of the Karaite figures centred there. It was from Jerusalem that 
their teachings went forth to the entire Karaite diaspora. 9 


The Karaite nest’im 

[926] We have seen that in the latter half of the ninth century, a schism 
developed between the branch of the exilarchic family who were ‘ Anan’s 
descendants, and the yeshivot, particularly the Palestinian yeshiva. From 
then onward, the Karaites adopted this branch as their own, considering 
‘Anan their founding father. We have seen the lineage ofjehoshaphat and 
Semah, who were both nesi’Tm (that is, they were counted among the 
exilarchic family) and geonim of Palestine. The first systematic list of 
Karaite tiest’tm was compiled by Poznanski. As we have already taken note 
ofjehoshaphat and Semah, sons of the ninth century, I shall recount what 
we know about those who followed them. 

Jehoshaphat’s son was Boaz. He is mentioned in the story of Bustanai 
found in the Geniza and ascribed to Nathan b. Abraham, which disparages 
the exilarchs, claiming that they all stemmed from the Persian princess 
given to Bustanai by the caliph. The text there speaks of all those named 

9 See: Nemoy, Karaite Anthology, 83, n. 1; the commentary to the Song of Solomon: BM Or 
2554, see: Margoliouth, Catalogue, I, 223f(No. 301); microfilm No. 6330 at the Institute of 
Microfilmed Hebrew MSS, at the National Library, Jerusalem; Assaf, Sefer ha-yishuv, 63: 
‘the year 395’ which he says was the year AM 4844, AD 1084 (it is not clear why), which 
would take us as far as the Saljuq period! See the description of this MS: Horning, Six 
Karaite Manuscripts, viii; see ibid., in the previous pages, details about Yefet’s other Bible 
commentaries, and see ibid., 21, 27; see further: Harkavy, ZAW, 1(1881), 228. The 
Commentary to Exodus: Pinsker, Liqqute qadmoniyot, II, 20. On Yefet’s writings, see also: 
Neubauer, Aus der Petersburger Bibl., 15ff. The sons of Levi b. Yefet: Pinsker, Liqqute 
qadmoniyot, 106; see Mann, Texts, II, 32f, and ibid., also the information on a treatise he 
wrote, which lists the differences between Ben Asher and Ben Naphtali (this is TS Box K 
27, f. 36), Hananiahb. Levib. Yefet is mentioned in 302, a, line 20; Salahb. Azariah, who is 
mentioned there in line 23 is evidently the grandson of Yefet b. ‘Ali. The book of precepts 
of Levi b. Yefet: MS Leiden, Or 4760, and at the Institute of Microfilmed Hebrew MSS at 
the National Library, Jerusalem: microfilm No. 28065; it can be seen from the language 
that it is a translation from the Arabic; see the date there: fob 34a. See colophons with Levi’s 
name: BM Or 2556, fol. 87a; BM Or 2558, fol. 166a, cf. Horning, Six Karaite Manuscripts, 
35. On Joseph b. Bakhtawayh and his pupil SaTd Shiran see: Mann, Texts, II, 29f. Joseph 
ibn Noah and Abu’l-Surrl ‘All (?) ibn Zuta (or Zita) were also contemporaries of Sahl b. 
Masllah and Yefet b. ‘Ali. A Karaite source (a commentary on the Book of Samuel, by ‘All 
b. Israel aluj) calls them the teachers of the Jerusalemites (mu'allimi al-maqddisa). As to 
Abu’l-Surri ibn Zuta, Mann has shown that he settled in Jerusalem evidently after 942, see 
Texts, II, 33, and more references there. In the Karaite marriage deed, 305, line 35, Joshua 
ha-Kohen b. ‘All b. Zita signed, perhaps his son; another of his relatives was perhaps 
Sedaqa b. Salih b. Sahl b. Zita, who is the first of the signatories on a record on the state of 
the avtv, see 302, a, line 19; after the Crusaders’ conquest (Summer 1100), we find Shelah 
ha-Kohen b. Zadok b. Masllah b. Zita, who is certainly the son of the former, see 577, b, 
margin. The family of b. Zita was then apparently an eminent and widely ramified 
Jerusalem Karaite family. See further on the commentaries of Yefet: Ben-Shammai, Alei 
Sefer, 2:17, 1975/6. 


790 



THE KARAITE NESITM [SECS. 926-9271 

Boaz and ‘the sons of Zakkai’; the entire dynasty of‘Anan on the one hand 
and the entire dynasty from which David andjosiah, the sons of Zakkai 
and their descendants (among them Hezekiah and his son David, and also 
Daniel b. Azariah - contemporaries ofNathanb. Abraham), all of them, it 
claims, are not proper Jews but the offspring of the Persian woman who 
had not converted tojudaism. In fact, we know that ‘Anan’s descendants 
claimed descent from Hasdai, while the offspring of Zakkai claimed 
descent from Baradai, the two sons of Bustanai from his Jewish wife. We 
know of two sons of Boaz, Abu Sa‘Id David andjosiah. A fragment from a 
polemical work written by the Gaon of Pumbedita, Aaron ha-Kohen b. 
Joseph (who is Khalaf b. Sarjada) against Saadia Gaon, lists the ‘sons of 
Boaz’, that is (as it should be understood) David andjosiah, as supporters 
of Saadia. It therefore becomes clear that they lived in the first half of the 
tenth century. According to Ibn al-HItl, David b. Boaz wrote a com¬ 
mentary on Ecclesiastes in AH 383, that is, in 993, which means that he 
was probably in his eighties at the time, but it is also possible that there was 
an error in al-Hiti’s version. David b. Boaz is credited with having written 
a commentary to the Pentateuch and a book on the principles of the 
religion (kitdb al-usul). In his commentaries of the Pentateuch, there are 
arguments with Saadia Gaon, written with restraint and to the point. 
Apparently David lived injerusalem, and he was possibly an adversary of 
Meir Gaon and his son Aaron, because of whom and against whom they 
had to appeal to the notables of Baghdad and ask for assistance in the 
period before the calendar dispute. It is also possible (as Mann assumed) 
that it was his animosity towards the Palestinian Gaon which caused 
David and his brother Josiah to later side with Saadia Gaon, the tenacious 
adversary of Meir Gaon and his son Aaron in the calendar dispute. One 
may even assume that the Palestinian Gaon sided at that time with David 
b. Zakkai, Saadia Gaon’s rival. However, we have no evidence that during 
these complicated events, the Karaites took part in the struggles. All 
sources merely refer to the descendants of‘Anan, a branch of the exilarchic 
family, the nest’Tm, the extent of whose connections with the Karaites 
cannot as yet be determined, although the later Karaite sources see David 
b. Boaz as a distinctly Karaite personality. 10 

10 See Poznanski, Babylonische Geonim, 128ff. The nesl’lm in the story of Bustanai, see Gil, 
Tarbiz, 48 (1978/9), 67. The matter of Hasdai and Baradai: ibid., 44, 62f, based on the 
geonic responsa. On David b. Boaz see: Poznanski, JQR, 18(1906), 226f. The supporters 
of Saadia: in Harkavy, Zikkaron. V, 227 (line 13); Khalaf b. Sarjada adds the following 
nicknames for the sons of Boaz: ‘the children of slave girls and camel flesh’, meaning the 
same claim about their Persian ancestress, and also a hint (unexplained and certainly not 
true) at some descent from Arabs. Apparently their support of Saadia contradicts the 
polemics conducted by David (in his old age?) against him in his commentaries of the 
Pentateuch, in which he is called hadha al-rajul (this man); see Harkavy, ZAW, 1(1881), 
157, and also Poznanski (above in this note). See on David b. Boaz, Mann, Texts, II, according 


791 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


[927] The son of David b. Boaz was Solomon, who was an inhabitant of 
Jerusalem, as is shown by an inscription of dedication at the head of a 
manuscript of the Bible in the Firkovitch collection. Husn (or Hasun), 
daughter ofjacob b. Joseph b. Kushnam, dedicated the Bible to the Karaite 
congregation injerusalem ‘through our Master the nasi Solomon b. David 
b. Boaz’. It also contains a blessing for Solomon’s two sons, Hezekiah and 
Josiah. The date of the dedication is Monday, 5 Tishri 1328 Sel., 10 
September AD 1016 (the Karaite Rosh ha-shana that year fell on the same 
day as that of the Rabbanites). 

Josiah and Hezekiah evidently lived most of their lives in Fustat, but 
they were in contact with the Palestinian yeshiva. The Karaite rank of nasi 
was preserved for the offspring of Semah b. Josiah (of the ninth century, as 
we have seen) while Josiah and Hezekiah stemmed from his brother 
Jehoshaphat b. Josiah. It seems that after the death of David b. Semah (b. 
Asab. Semah b. Josiah), however, when Fustat remained without a nasi, it 
is Hezekiah b. Solomon b. David b. Boaz b. Jehoshaphat who succeeded 
to this rank, as did his offspring after him. 

The two brothers, the nesi’imjosish and Hezekiah, the sons of Solomon, 
are mentioned in the colophon of the Keter of Aleppo, dedicated by Israel 
of Basra b. Simha b. Saadia b. Ephraim to the Karaites ofjerusalem, with 
the provision that it be kept by the ‘two nesi’im’, Josiah and Hezekiah, the 
sons of Solomon. Hezekiah b. Solomon maintained a relationship with the 
Jerusalem Gaon Solomon b. Judah. In a letter written for him by his son 
Abraham but which he himself signed, in ca. 1026, the Gaon expresses his 
desire that the nasi come to Jerusalem before Rosh ha-shana, and he hopes 
that the nasi will bring with him a letter from the authorities in Egypt 
(implying that he will obtain this letter with the help of the Tustaris), 
which will reinforce the prerogative of the nasi: ‘to strengthen him against 
the provokers of quarrels’. Solomon b. Judah also expressed his willing¬ 
ness to grant the nasi a very high rank injerusalem, ‘to be a captain over 
God’s nation’ (2 Sam., v:4). In a letter written some years later, he 
mentions that the nasi was a guarantor for large sums of money (a matter 
probably related to the Jerusalemites imprisoned because of their debts — 
an affair that has been enlarged on above). It seems that considerable sums 
of money were at the disposal of these nesi’im, for in another letter the 
Gaon notes that while the Rabbanites still owe 900 dinars, some of them 
having been taken to prison, the Karaites (‘the sect of the sela‘ ’) owed 800, 
despite the fact that they are given considerable help by the nesi’im. At 
about the same time, the Gaon wrote a letter to Sahlan b. Abraham, in 

to the Index, particularly 132ff, and ibid, also on the support of the sons of Boaz for Saadia 

Gaon. One can also get an idea of David b. Boaz’ attitude to the Karaites and their views, 

from his opposition to the theory of rikkuv, that is, the extension of the incest regulations 


792 



THE KARAITE NESITM [SECS. 926-927] 

which he mentioned the nasi by name: ‘our nasi, his honour, our Master 
Hezekiah’. 

In the days of these nesi’im Josiah and Hezekiah, marriage ties were 
contracted between the nesi’im and the Tustaris: Yefet (Hasan) the son of 
Abu Sa‘d Abraham b. Yashar (Sahl) al-Tustari, became betrothed to the 
daughter of one of the nesi’im. In the deed of betrothal, only the name of 
the grandfather, Solomon b. David, has been preserved. The deed was 
written in the presence of the Karaite nasi in Fustat, ‘the great nasi David 
. . . son of Semah the ndsT , who is David b. Semah b. Asa b. Semah, from 
the other branch of the family of the nesi’im. It is also likely that the uncle of 
Yefet al-Tustari, Abu Mansur Aaron (Harun), the youngest ofthe Tustari 
brothers, married the daughter of one of these nesi’im, for Solomon b. 
Judah mentions ‘Aaron, the son-in-law ofthe nasi’ who happens to be in 
Jerusalem, perhaps referring to the Tustari. The relationship with the 
Tustaris is also evident from a letter of complaint written by Solomon b. 
Judah to Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac ibn Furat, with claims against people 
who are scheming against him and his son Abraham. These people (per¬ 
haps the Shuway 1 family) wrote letters incriminating him ‘to our nasi 
Abu’l-Hasan Josiah’, before his meeting with ‘my Master, the grandee’ 

( ha-gevir ) that is, with Hesed b. Yashar the Tustari. Possibly related to this 
matter is another letter from the Gaon, perhaps written to the nasi directly, 
which speaks ofthe appointment ofa haver in the yeshiva from among the 
people of Fustat, also containing his reaction to complaints about the 
Gaon, which reached the addressee from some unworthy person: ‘but 
how can such a person be worthy of writing to your honour’. From all that 
has been said above, one may conclude that during Solomon b. Judah’s 
day, friendly and collaborative relations developed between the Palesti¬ 
nian yeshiva and the Karaite nesi’im ofjehoshaphat’s family. The Tustari 
family, who, as we have seen, were connected by marriage to the nesi’im, 
comprised a third party to this relationship, while a fourth party was the 
‘Babylonian’ congregation in Fustat and its leaders, Abraham b. Sahlan 
and his son Sahlan. They were the bond which linked this alliance by 
virtue of their special connections with the Tustaris. This four-sided 
alliance disassembled during the dispute with Nathan b. Abraham. The 
‘Babylonians’ in Fustat and the Tustaris sided with the rival Gaon. On the 
other hand, it seems that the nesi’Im of the house of Jehoshaphat main¬ 
tained their friendship and relations with the old Gaon. One may even 
assume that due to their relationship with the other parties, they played an 
important role in the settling of the dispute, hence it is not accidental that 
we find the signature of‘Hezekiah the nasi b. Solomon the nasi b. David 

to all relatives of the mate, where there are no blood-relations. See Mann, ibid., 140, 

n. 290, and see also p. 1470. 


793 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


Bustanai 

Hasdai 

David 


‘Anan Hananiah (?) 

siul 


Josiah Daniel 

Jehoshaphat Semah ‘Anan 

I ./ \ 

Boaz Asa Yefet 
(Abu Sa‘Id) David Josiah Semah 

I 'I 

Solomon David 


Josiah Hezekiah 

Family tree of the Karaite nest’im 

the nasi, of blessed memory’ in the written agreement which put an end to 
the dispute. 11 


Beliefs and opinions 

[928] I shall now discuss something of the views of the Karaites on 

various subjects, especially as they are expressed in the writings of some of 

11 See the colophon: Kahle, Masoreten des Western, I, 67, and in Mann, Texts, II, 134f, and see 
the notes there; the writer of the colophon signed in atbash (a system of cryptography), and 
he is Nissi b. Aaron b. Bakhtaway; see also: Poznanki, Babylottische Geonim, 129; Mann 
(ibid., 46) assumed that Solomon b. David b. Boaz is the mysterious figure (‘son-in-law of 
Sheshach’) against whom Josiah Gaon came out in his epistle, 29; the two nest’itn in the 
colophon: Harkavy, HaddshTm, 104ff. Solomon b. Judah on the nasi: 64; cf. Mann, Texts, 
II, 46. The guarantee: 82, lines 16ff. The aid: 84, lines 12—13. ‘Our Nasi’: 86, line 15. The 
deed of betrothal: TS 16.50, cf. Goitein, Mediterranean Society, III, 135; 455, n. 92; this 
family relationship is also implied in ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel’s letter, from 17July 1060, in 
which he asks the people of Fustat to obtain a reduction in his taxes for his shop in 
Jerusalem, suggesting that for this purpose, they ask ‘our Master, the honoured Nasi 
Hezekiah, may God preserve him, to speak to our Master Abu Mansur’, etc.; it is quite 
clear that they are referring to the Nasi Hezekiah b. Solomon, and evidently to Abu 
Mansur Aaron the Tustari, his son-in-law. See 446. lines 27—28. David the Nasi b, Semah 
(b. Asa) is also mentioned in 307, lines 11, 16 (the year is 1051, when he is still the Karaite 
Nasi in Fustat); cf. Gil, ha-Tustarim, 58. Aaron the son-in-law of the Nasi: 120, a, line 9; 
there, too, money needed to ransom the Jerusalemite prisoners is mentioned. The 


794 



BELIEFS AND OPINIONS [SECS. 928-934] 


those figures who lived in Palestine, and in letters from the eleventh 
century, for this is not intended as an all-inclusive and comprehensive 
survey of the history of the Karaites and their ways of thinking, but mainly 
as a discussion focusing on the Palestinian sources. 

One of the prominent issues in the lives of the Karaites, from which 
there were important projections with regard to their relationship with the 
Rabbanites, was that of the calendar. As they used to determine the 
beginning of the month by the actual sighting of the new moon, and the 
intercalation by an examination of the state of the grain in Palestine, it is 
understandable that there were differences between them and the Rabba¬ 
nites over the days on which the holidays should be celebrated. 

Observance of the moon is mentioned in Karaite marriage deeds as one 
of the characteristic principles of the sect. Whereas from a passage in 
Benjamin al-Nihawandi, one gets the impression that the matter of fixing 

complaints tojosiah: 142 , line 31. The letter to the Nasi (?) Josiah (?): 152 ; my view of this 
letter is merely an assumption; Mann > Jews, I, 13If, assumed that it was written to the 
av-bet-din of the yeshiva who was then in Egypt. The record of agreement: 199 , b, line 4; in 
1043, Solomon b. Judah wrote to Sahlan b. Abraham and expressed interest in ‘the two 
books pitron qdhelet (commentary on Ecclesiastes) of the Nasi, of blessed memory’, which 
Solomon b. Judah had sent to Fustat, see 137 , b, lines 4-80. We know that Hezekiah lived a 
long time, until the sixties of the century, whereas Josiah is mentioned in a court document 
in Fustat, dated Thursday, 15Tammuzl366 Sel., 13July AD 1055; hence we learn that the 
late nasi mentioned in Solomon b. Judah’s letter cannot be Josiah, contrary to Mann’s 
assumption, and not even Hezekiah. See Mann, Texts, II, 48; Mann himself edited a 
fragment from a court document from 1055, in whichjosiah is mentioned, see his Jews, II, 
453. ‘Hezekiah the great Nasi, Nasi of the Land of Israel and Judah . . . son of.. . Solomon 
the great Nasi, of blessed memory’, is mentioned in a fragment of a Karaite marriage deed, 
TS 20.42, dated Thursday, 9 Adar (‘Shevat according to the Karaites’; thus it says in the 
deed) 1373 Sel., 21 February AD 1062, see in Mann, Texts , II, 173f. To this subject of the 
nesVim , 288 should also be considered, a letter from a Karaite who was requested ‘to go up 
to the bet ha-miqdash (i.e. Jerusalem) and meet with my Master the Nasi’. The letter also 
contains news of the arrival of Abu Nasr David b. Isaac ha-Levi, one of the Karaite leaders 
in Egypt (discussed above), at the writer’s place (Ramla?); Abu Sulayman David b. 
Bapshad was also staying there then; he was probably the son of Babshad ha-Kohen b. 
David, mentioned by Mann, Texts , I, 151 (ibid., in n. 7 one should read: Abu Sulayman 
instead of Sulayman); ibid., 163f, there is a fragment of a letter from the Gaon Samuel b. 
Hofnl, with regards to Abu Sulayman b. Babshad in the margin; see ibid., n. 44b, on 
Babshad ha-Kohen b. David and on the name Babshad (Bapshad). See: Justi, Iranisches 
Namenbuch, 55: Babshadh. The Karaite of Fustat David b. Bapshad evidently converted to 
Islam, according to information about a personality who was evidently his son, men¬ 
tioned by al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, Ta’rikh, VII, 307: al-Hasan b. Da’ud b. Babshad b. 
Da’ud b. Sulayman; whose by-name was Abu Sa‘Id al-Misri. He was from a family who 
came from Persia. He arrived in Baghdad, and studied law according to Abu Hanifa with 
the cadi Abu ‘Abdallah al-Saymarl. He was a very gifted pupil and particularly excelled in 
his knowledge of the Koran by heart in various reading versions; he was also learned in 
literature, mathematics and grammar. He also possessed a profound knowledge of tra¬ 
ditions (hadhh), which he both studied and taught. Al-Khatib al-Baghdadi knew him 
personally and studied with him, and he praises his keen mind; his father, he writes, was a 
Jew who converted to Islam, a genuine conversion. The son (Abu Said) lived in Baghdad 
until the end of his life, and died on Saturday, 14 Dhu’l-Qa‘da AH 439 (1 May, AD 1048). 


795 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


the first day of the month on the basis of the appearance of the new moon 
only related to Nisan and Tishri, Daniel al-QumisI explicitly states in his 
book of precepts that it is forbidden to compute on the basis of the 
movement of the celestial bodies: ‘we are not permitted to deduce [the 
fixing of] the months of God and his holidays from the computation of 
sorcerers and astrologers’. In the same passage in which he speaks of the 
fixing of the new month, Benjamin al-Nihawandl also formulates the rule 
relating to the intercalation: ‘if the barley grain is ripe enough for harvest¬ 
ing in the month of Nisan to be used for the ‘omer offering during the seven 
days of Passover, the year is normal. But if the grain is not ripe enough for 
harvesting ... that entire year is a leap year’. Later, we find Qirqisani 
basing this rule on ‘observe the month of Aviv’ (Deut., xvi:l), which, he 
says, is referring to the ripeness of the grains —of barley, not wheat. Some 
say, he writes, that it is permissible to take moist ears for the ‘omer, but this 
contradicts ‘and you shall reap the harvest thereof’ (Lev., xxiii:10), for one 
did not harvest the ears when they were wet. 

Salmon b. Yeruhim blames the Rabbanites: ‘they do not say anything of 
sighting the moon or looking for the aviv'. Evidently, ascertaining the leap 
year on the basis of the aviv was an innovation introduced by the Karaites 
from the time they settled in Palestine, as we are clearly told by Levi b. 
Yefet in his book of precepts: ‘the Karaites living in the land of Shin'ar 
[which is Babylonia] and other remote places, were imitating the Rabba¬ 
nites, since they saw that their [computation of the] leap years is, in most 
cases, perfect’; that is, as long as the Karaites lived in Babylonia and Persia, 
and so on, they abided by the calendar of the Rabbanites, which seemed to 
them good enough at the time; ‘but the people [living] in Palestine contra¬ 
dicted them, for in their opinion, it sufficed to see the state of the aviv in 
order to fix [a leap year]’; that is, when they settled in Palestine, the settlers 
had the possibility of observing the state of the grain there, and this was 
sufficient for them to know when to fix a leap year. He continues with 
detailing the signs (of the aviv): the barley must be ‘strong and hard’; the 
upper part must be dark green and the lower part, yellow, and so on. He 
also discusses the borders of Palestine with regard to the aviv, for example, 
‘Gaza is the extremity of Palestine, as it is said:... as thou comest to Gerar, 
unto Gaza’ [Gen., x:19], by which he meant that Gaza is the border. The 
proper aviv should appear all over - in the Galilee and the Darom and the 
Sea of Galilee. 12 

12 The sighting of the moon: 304, c, line 14; 305, line 31; 308, line 3 (reconstructed); Saadia 
Gaon ascribes to ‘Anan the matter of fixing the new month by sighting the new moon; 
according to him, after ‘Anan was excluded from the exilarchate, he was helped by 
Muslims and imitated their customs in order to gain their good will, such as fixing of the 
new month by sighting the new moon; he first made his decision and then sought for proof 
in the scripture, see Zucker, Targum, 144ff. It should be noted here that whereas the fixing 


796 



BELIEFS AND OPINIONS [SECS. 928-934] 


[929] Now we can easily understand what is written in some of the 
documents in my collection. The Karaite Moses b. Isaac writes from 
Jerusalem, apparently in 1044, to one of the leaders of the Karaites in 
Fustat, informing him of the state of the aviv. He points out that at the 
beginning of Sha'ban, which is when the letter was written, the grain in 
the al-darum region was mostly a mottled green ( mujabban ), by which he 
evidently means yellowish, while less of it was dark green: dajan. In the 
regions of Rafah (Rafiah), the Ghawr (Jordan valley), Zughar (Zoar), and 
the surrounding areas, the situation was similar. The examination was 
being organised by mawla’i al-rayyis , ‘my Master the chief, who is not 
known to us. In a document written in March 1052, we find a record 
compiled by a Karaite delegation, made up of Jerusalemites and Gazans. 
They went out to Suq Mazin (described in sec. 310), near Gaza. The 
survey was partly carried out on the property of the cadi Salama b. 
Mahmud, and they also examined a plot of land belonging to Ibrahim b. 
al-Khufyanl, and apparently still another - that of the cadi al-Sabgha (his 
name is not preserved in full). They established the state of the grain on the 
basis of the evidence of the fallahin. The delegates remained in the fields for 
two days, Thursday and Friday, and examined a number of fields. Appar¬ 
ently, the delegation consisted of twelve participants, who signed at the 
end of the document. This document is evidently a copy of the original, 
for apart from some signatures which are not clear, the remainder is in the 
handwriting of the scribe. 

Apparently it was the nesT’Ttn who made the decision when to fix the leap 
year, and this may have been the purpose of the letter from Moses b. Isaac 
of Fustat, that is, to inform the nesT’tm of the facts, in order that they may 
decide how to proceed. On this matter we have no clear information, 
however, and it is possible that in fact the decision would be made in 
Jerusalem and sent from there to all the Karaite congregations, as we learn 
from the letter of Eliah of Salonika, in which he expresses bitterness at the 
fact that the Karaites ‘desecrated the sacred feasts of the Lord and cel¬ 
ebrated Rosh ha-shana in the eighth month, for they had received letters 
from Palestine that the avTv was not to be seen in Nisan, and Passover was 
held in lyar’. 

Muslim writers were also aware of the Karaites’ method of determining 
a leap year. Mas'udI mentions that the ‘ Ananites fix Passover according to 

of the month according to the sighting of the moon and not according to computation, 
seemed to the Karaites a means of gaining the favour of the Muslims, we know that the 
Fatimids used to fix the new month by computation, not by sighting the moon. See: 
Canard, AlEO, 10(1952), 376. See Benjamin al-Nihawandi in Harkavy, Zikkaron, 8,176; 
Daniel al-QumisI, ibid ., 189. Qirqisani, 836, 843, 850. Salmon b. Yeruhim, Sefer Mil- 
hamot, 82. Levi b. Yefet, MS Leiden Or 4760, 22a-b; 23b; 24a; 26a, ff. From the language, 
it is obvious that this is a translation from the Arabic, and that the translator did not know 


797 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


the ripeness of the grain; there are even those for whom a partial ripeness is 
sufficient. Biruni writes in the same vein: the fixing of the new month 
according to the sighting of the new moon, and the leap year according to 
the state of the barley in Iraq (!) and in Palestine. If the grain is easily husked 
and is ready for harvesting and the awns developed, a leap year is not in the 
offing. Their people go out to examine the fields for this purpose when 
there are still seven days left in the month of Shevat. Some add another 
month of Shevat (II) while others add Adar (II), but most prefer Shevat, in 
order to be different from the Rabbanites. Biruni adds a critical remark to 
the description of this method, namely that it is unstable and lacks uni¬ 
formity, and that it would be advisable to have such things regulated by 
law ( qanun). 

There were differences of opinion and varied calendar systems amongst 
the Karaites themselves. We now know of one faction among the Karaites 
whose calendar system was different from that of the rest of the Karaites — 
that of the Tustaris. This can be seen in fragments of an eleventh century 
Karaite calendar, apparently belonging to the Tustaris, in which the dates 
of the Rabbanites, the Karaites and the Tustaris are listed side by side. This 
can also be observed in a Karaite deed from 26 July 1032, relating to a deal 
between Abu’l-Hasan Da’ud b. al-Faraj and ‘Imran b. Levi’ha-Kohen, 
where we find in Arabic script: ‘Wednesday eve, the 15th of Av, which is 
Av for most of the Karaites and Elul for some of them, and is the month of 
Sha‘ban for the gentiles, in the year one thousand and three hundred and 
forty-four of Alexander’s era. ’ 

As to the use of eras, we find in Karaite deeds and even letters, the 
frequent use of the Muslim hijra year. Sometimes the Seleucid era is used. 
An unusual method is their computation from the exile of Jehoiachin. We 
find this in fragments of a Karaite formulary, and also in one of the Karaite 
marriage deeds in my collection. An explicit clue to this era can be found 
in that same formulary, in which the year 1321 Sel. is listed as against 
1484 of the exile of Jehoiachin, that is, the year was AD 1009/10, which 
shows that according to their reckoning, the exile of Jehoiachin occurred 
in 435-434 BC. It is also worth quoting what Salmon b. Yeruhim says in 
his commentary to Lam., iii:6 (He hath set me in dark places, as they that 
be dead of old): ‘as is known, 1385 years have now passed from the exile of 
Jehoiachin, and 885 from the destruction of the second Temple’. In view of 
what has been said above, this was, according to the era of the exile of 
Jehoiachin, AD 951. We must therefore deduce from this that they reck¬ 
oned the date of the destruction of the second Temple as having occurred 


how to translate the words relating to the details of the aviv discussed above; cf. Pinsker, 
Liqqute qadmdniyol, II, 90. 


798 



BELIEFS AND OPINIONS [SECS. 928-934] 

in the year 66, and not 68, which was the year generally accepted by the 
Jews. 13 

[930] Another domain in which the Karaites had their own laws, was 
that of food. One may fmd evidence of this in Daniel al-Qumisi’s com¬ 
mentary to Hosea, viiiill (Because Ephraim hath made many altars to 
sin): ‘altars mean the basins of the slaughterers’; ‘basins of the butchers’; 
and further, to Hosea, x:l (he hath increased the altars): ‘to buy meat from 
the altars of the slaughterers and idol-worshippers’; and to Hosea, xiii:12 
(the iniquity of Ephraim is bound up) ‘[these are] the altars in [the period 
of] the exile, basins of the butchers, to eat meat at a time when there are no 
sacrifices’. This clearly implies that the writer sees it as a sin to eat meat 
when there are no sacrifices, and in his book of precepts, Daniel says: 
‘know ye now that it is not permitted to any God-fearing person to eat 
fowl, but doves . . . until the teacher of righteousness will come’. 

Qirqisani cites the Karaite ban on eating meat in Jerusalem and this was 
deduced from the expression ‘without the camp’ (Ex., xxix:14 and else¬ 
where); Jerusalem is the camp, hence consuming ‘meat for lust’ is only 
permitted outside Jerusalem. In an anonymous Karaite halakhic treatise 
we find: ‘the more so, when the City of your Holy Mount is destroyed, 
nor do you have your priests, while dumb and blind dogs are observing 

,3 Moses b. Isaac: 301 . The record: 302 ; a remnant ofa similar recordis TS AS 158.147; it has 
a series of similar terms; it speaks there of two surveys, in Dhu’l-Qa'da and Dhu’l-Hi[ja, 
and of the varied hues of the ears; see also ibid, evidence of the exact time of the new moon 
(on the fourth hour on the . . . day of Dhu’l-Hijja). The letter of Eliah from Salonika: TS 
20.45, edited by Mann, Texts , I, 48f, lines 32ff. See Mas'udl, Tanbih, 219; Btrunl, 59, 283. 
Seethe discussion in Bornstein, Hatequfa, 14-15 (1921/2), 365ff, on the matter of intercala¬ 
tion in Karaite sources. Fragments of the calendar: TS NSJ 609; ENA 4010, f. 35; 4196, f. 
15, in Gil, ha-Tustarim, 86ff. The deed from 1032: TS BoxJ 3, £ Alv (formerly TS 13 J 32), 
in Assaf, KlausnerJubilee Volume, 230; see what Assaf quotes from Aderet Eliydhii (relating 
to 1336/7), and from the letter of Obadiah of Bertinoro, with evidence on the differences 
between the Karaites themselves regarding the calendar in later generations. Ankori, 
Karaites in Byzantium, 317, n. 51, refers to this matter the passage of Levi b. Yefet quoted 
above, about the Karaites ‘in the land of Shin‘ar and other remote places', who followed 
the Rabbanite calendar, unlike their brethren in Palestine; but as I have stated above, this 
was how the Karaite writer described the process of detachment from the Rabbanite 
calendar after the establishment of the Karaite community in Palestine; in other words, in 
early Karaism, they followed the Rabbanite calendar; once they had established their 
community in Palestine, they adopted new calendar regulations. The era of Jehoiachin, 
see: 303 , 1 (a), lines 6, 14; 304 , I, lines 2—3; Salmon b. Yeruhim: MS Paris 295, 71a; cf. 
Mann, Texts, II, 158, who assumes that this reckoning from the exile ofjehoiachin was 
peculiar to the people of Ramla, see in the document he edits, ibid., 191 (BM Or 2538, 
f. 89:/); the date of the copy he quotes there, 192, is 1334/5, not 1424, for ‘of the little horn’ 
means AH, not Sel. We have evidence from the tenth century regarding the difference 
(which we do not find in the eleventh century) in the reckoning of the years since the 
creation; Qirqisani, writing in AM 4697 (AD 937) notes that according to the Karaite 
reckoning, that year was 4724 of the creation, that is, a difference of 27 years; see this 
passage in Neubauer, MediaevalJewish Chronicles, II, 249, and cf. Mann, Texts, II, 78, n. 33 
(where there is a misprint, apparently, 997 instead of 937). 


799 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


you, and menstruating women, and men with issues, and lepers, and 
uncircumcised Christians enter the shrine of the elevated ‘Ofel ... it is 
forbidden to eat meat and to drink wine’. There he also adds the ban on 
slaughtering pregnant animals, which he deduces from ‘whether it be a 
cow or ewe, ye shall not kill it and her young both in one day’ (Lev., 
xxii:28), and concludes: ‘whoever slaughters or eats of a pregnant animal 
in the [during the] exile [!] is a transgressor and wicked person’. Sahl b. 
Masliah complains in his ‘letter of rebuke’ that the Rabbanites buy - after 
reading the megilla - in the ‘gentile market’, ‘all sorts of sweets that are 
made from their [the gentiles’] fat and sweetened by them’; apart from 
this, ‘they eat the animals they immolate after alien gentiles flay them’; 
‘and the essence of all this is: it is forbidden [to eat] meat of cattle or sheep 
in exile . ,. cooked with the forbidden fat-tail . . . they eat stew which is 
placed on the eve of the sabbath on a kindled fire’. Apart from the matter of 
the fat-tail of the sheep and the stew kept warm from Friday, which is 
clear, it seems that the matter of ‘it is forbidden in exile’ needs interpret¬ 
ation; it probably means: when there is no Temple, and is not meant to 
discriminate between Palestine and other countries. 

They were also pedantic about baking tnassa from barley flour, not 
wheat flour, which they attributed to ‘Anan, who interpreted it from the 
expression ‘the bread of affliction’ (Dt., xvi:3). What we have not found 
stated explicitly in the writings of the Karaite figures I have mentioned 
here, is the permission to eat meat with milk. Karaite evidence of this 
exists only in comparatively later sources, but in the eleventh century 
Solomon b. Judah explicitly wrote in one of his letters that the Karaites ate 
meat with milk. He claimed that this is no reason to excommunicate them. 
In another of his letters, however, it emerges that a quarrel broke out in 
Ramla between the Rabbanites and the Karaites because of the latter’s 
refusal to accept the Rabbanite supervision of their slaughtering. The 
Karaite customs in the eleventh century with regard to meat are not made 
quite clear in the Geniza documents. While on the one hand, we hear about 
the eating of meat with milk, on the other hand, we also read about a total 
ban on the eating of meat, in Jerusalem, at any rate. A Karaite marriage 
deed from Jerusalem, datedjanuary 1028, contains the following prohib¬ 
ition: ‘and without eating beef and mutton in Jerusalem’; which implies 
that they only ate fowl. As against this, the Karaite Mahbub b. Nissim 
writes: ‘I did not eat [injerusalem] either meat or fowl, out of fear of God’. 
Another document specifically relating to dietary laws of the Karaites at 
that time is a Rabbanite record of evidence concerning cheese made by the 
Karaites (of Samaritiqa) ‘produced on the Mount of Olives’, which was 
kosher. Three witnesses are signatories there, among them Aaron ha- 


800 



BELIEFS AND OPINIONS [SECS. 928-934] 


Kohen b. ‘Amram (undoubtedly the in-law of the Gaon Abiathar ha- 
Kohen b. Elijah, the father of his son-in-law ‘Amram). The confirmation 
of kashrut is only granted after ‘we acquired it from him according to their 
ways of purchase, which is from hand to hand’ (that is, with a hand¬ 
shake), ‘and we made him take an oath on the Holy Torah’. 14 

[931] There is a very interesting document in my collection dealing with 
Karaite matrimonial laws and incest regulations, which is a letter written 
by Simon b. Saul of Tulaytula (Toledo) from Jerusalem, to his sister 
Balluta in October 1057. He writes to her of the case of Abraham b. 
Fadanj, who arrived in Palestine with his wife and children after a difficult 
journey from Spain, via Byzantium, and was in very reduced circum¬ 
stances. The Karaites learned that he had married the sister of his late first 
wife after her death. The writer tried at first to keep the matter from the 
Karaites but the women from Tulaytula who lived in Ramla could not 
restrain from telling the Karaites about it. In the continuation, he describes 
the tragic situation that developed after the family settled in Jerusalem, in 
Samareitike. The Karaite elders demanded that the couple separate. The 
writer intervened in the matter, holding forth on the case of one of the 
heads of the Karaites, Jacob, evidently also from Tulaytula, who also had a 
wife who should be forbidden to him, because he was one of two brothers 
who had married two sisters. Indeed, as a result of this claim, Jacob 
divorced his wife. Simon b. Saul, the writer, then went to the trouble of 
applying to ‘our Master av-bet-din ’ (Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon, at the 
time), who interceded in the matter and insisted that Jacob return 
the bridal money to his wife, because their marriage had been conclu¬ 
ded before a Rabbanite court (the woman may have been a Rabbanite 

14 See Daniel al-Qumisi, Pilron, 13; The Book of Precepts, in Harkavy, Zikkaron, VIII, 187ff; 
gomd, certainly the Arabic jum, which means basin, QirqisanI, 1243f. The anonymous: 
JTS Schechter Geniza, fs, 17a— 18b; a similar ban on the eating of meat and drinking wine 
was declared by Abu ‘Isa al-Isfaham, who did this on his own, basing the ban on the 
prophets and not on the Pentateuch; see QirqisanI, 51; Shahrastani, 168. Sahl b. Majllah, 
in Pinsker, Liqqute qadmoniyot. II, 32; see similar things also in Levi b. Yefet, in his book of 
precepts, MS Leiden Or 4760, 109a, ff; see in Poznanski, REJ, 45(1902), 181, a passage by 
an unknown Karaite, referring the ban on meat ‘in exile’ to ‘ Anan, who followed the ways 
of the Pharisees, deducing it from ‘thou shalt eat it within thy gates’ (Deut., xv:22). 
Tobiah b. Moses, in the eleventh century, complains in Osar nehmdd about the Rabbanites, 
who permit the ‘defiled foods’ (see Poznanski, ibid., 186). It is worth noting the opinion of 
Friedlander, JQR, NS 3(1912/3), 296, who assumes that the origin of the prohibitions on 
eating meat is in Manichaean influence, especially of the Persian Manichaean movement of 
Mazdaq. The matter of the massa: Levi b. Yefet, Book of Precepts, in Harkavy, Zikkaron, 
VIII, 133. Solomon b. Judah: 121, lines 9-10, 12; see Karaite sources on this matter in 
Mann, Jews, II, 156, n. 4 (from Eshkol ha-kofer and others). The quarrel in Ramla: 122, line 
27. The marriage deed; 305, lines 31-32. Maljbub: 292, a, lines 17-18. The cheese: 309. Cf. 
on the matter of dietary laws and the ban on eating meat also in Mann, T exts, II, 65f; and 
see the treatise on the ban on eating meat in Jerusalem, from the fourteenth century, which 
he edited ibid., 108ff. 


8oi 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


originally). As to Abraham ibn Fadanj, he and his wife and their four 
children, through the efforts of this Simon, were received back by the 
Rabbanites, although at first the latter were reluctant to do so because they 
had lived within the Karaite fold for two years, although they were 
Rabbanites by origin. A livelihood was even arranged for them in the form 
of a shop in one of the villages (in the neighbourhood ofjerusalem). In the 
letter, there is a description of the Karaite principle of the rikktiv: ‘they have 
a law prohibiting marriage with a sister of a deceased wife, for which none 
of their learned people can find any reference, except that they say that this 
is what they received from ‘Anan, the chief and founder of the Karaites’. 
Finally, he writes, the Karaites learned their lesson from the episode of 
Abraham ibn Fadanj and gave in tojacob, that is, they compromised with 
him and agreed that he should not divorce his wife but he had to swear not 
to have intercourse with her. This, too, aroused the writer’s gall. It is 
difficult to say - perhaps the tragic situations described here and their 
outcome is what influenced the spiritual leader of the Karaites at the time, 
the Jerusalemite Yeshu'a b. Judah, to formulate his amendments to the 
rikktiv. These amendments and concessions aroused some opposition a 
generation later, on the part of one of the offspring of the Tustari family, 
Sahl b. al-Fadl b. Sahl (Yashar b. Hesed b. Yashar), who lived in Jerusa¬ 
lem. In the spring of 1096, he felt the need to express his arguments in 
favour of the rikktiv in writing, rebuking Yeshu’a b. Judah (Abu’l-Faraj 
Furqan b. Asad) for marrying a woman who was a relative of the family of 
his brother-in-law, his sister’s husband. 15 

15 The letter of Simon b. Saul: 457 . We find this matter of two sisters in the ‘book of precepts’ 
of Daniel al-QumisI, according to whom the sister of the wife, if she is a half-sister (that is, 
from another father or mother), is forbidden to her brother-in-law during the wife’s 
lifetime, but permitted after her death; but if they are full sisters ‘they are forbidden both in 
life and in death’; ‘Anan is not mentioned there at all, and this seems to be one of the Karaite 
innovations introduced during their settlement in Palestine, evidently initiated by al- 
QumisI himself, as is also stated by QirqisanI, 1144. See the statements of Daniel al- 
QumisI in Pinsker, Liqqute qadmoniyot, 11, 188f., and in Harkavy, Zikkdrbn, VIII, 190f; 
which are an interpretation of Lev., xviii:18, ‘a wife to her sister’. See the matter of the ban 
on marrying two sisters to two brothers, in QirqisanI, U45f. See Sahl b. Masllah’s ‘letter 
of rebuke’ in Pinsker, II, 33; Sahl boasts that many of the Rabbanites ‘at the Holy Mount 
(i.e. Jerusalem) and in Ramla’ behave in the Karaite manner both regarding the dietary 
laws (they do not eat mutton or beef in Jerusalem) and in the prohibitions of incest, and 
particularly do not marry daughters of their brothers or sisters; we do not have documents 
which would confirm his statements. Friedman, Te'uda , I, 76, n. 82, deduces from the 
Damascus Covenant and from the Qumranic ‘Scroll of the Temple’, which contain the 
ban on such marriages, that this is an ancient ban, and that the Karaites took it from ‘the 
Qumranic Rabbanite 'am ha-ares in Palestine’; but I do not think that the writings reflect 
any Rabbanite view, not even of the lay people but merely the attitudes of the Judaean 
Desert sect, by whom the Karaites were evidently influenced, as stated above. See the 
passage of Sahib. Fadlb. Sahl al-Tustarl, MS Firkovitch II, No. 3950, in Mann, Texts , 99f; 
see on him: Gil, ha-Tustarun, 65f; it seems thai.it is this Sahl b. Fadl with whom the Spanish 
Arab writer Abu Bakr ibn al-‘ArabI met and argued, as mentioned ibid. 


802 



BELIEFS AND OPINIONS [SECS, 928-934] 


[932] There were also differences between the Rabbanites and the 
Karaites in matters of inheritance, especially with regard to the rights of 
the daughters. According to Daniel al-Qumisi, the daughter should re¬ 
ceive a third of the inheritance, for only on landed property in Palestine did 
the Torah rule that the son precedes the daughter. Qirqisani attributes this 
approach to ‘people of the ‘Ananites’. There is no doubt that this view was 
not acceptable to all the Karaites, perhaps borne out by a fragment of a 
court document from Fustat, from Josiah Gaon’s time, which I have 
mentioned above. It refers to a woman named Mubaraka, who applied to 
the Muslim ‘judge of judges’, that is the qadl’l-qudah, demanding that she 
receive the part of her father’s inheritance which had been appropriated by 
her brother. The matter was forwarded to the Jerusalem Gaon, who was 
the representative of the Jews recognised by the authorities and whose 
opinion was considered decisive. It is not unlikely that this woman was a 
Karaite, a possibility supported by the fact that we find Joseph b. Israel the 
Tustari ( al-DustarT) among the signatories (the Tustaris being Karaites), as 
well as Farah b. Mu’ammal, who was perhaps a Karaite as well, or who at 
least had special connections with them. We also find Karaite customs 
regarding inheritance in Karaite marriage deeds, such as in the marriage 
deed which stipulates that if the woman Husn should die childless, all the 
property she brought with her to her husband’s house (that is, her dowry) 
must be returned to her paternal family. This is indeed consistent with the 
ancientjewish halakha, as it is recorded in the Palestinian Talmud (Ket. ix, 
33a), but different from the usage among the Rabbanites in the period 
under discussion, to apportion only half the woman’s property to her 
paternal family. 16 

16 See what Jacob b. Reuven says about Daniel al-Qumisi on this matter in Pinsker, Liqqiite 
qadmoniyot, II, 85: ‘this he has taken from the Arabs' and see the fragment from Daniel’s 
commentary on Leviticus: TS Loan 199. See Qirqisani, 1269-1272; as to him, he rejects the 
view that the daughter inherits at the same time as the son. Mubaraka: 44 . The marriage 
deeds: 304 — 306 . The matter of the dowry is extensively discussed in research, see refer¬ 
ences: Assaf, Tarbiz, 9(1937/8), 29, n. 1; Friedman, Marriage, I, 400, 415ff. The Karaite 
formulary and marriage deeds 303-308 are undoubtedly an interesting source for the study 
of the deeds, especially marriage deeds, of the Karaites. The deeds there mention ‘Jerusa¬ 
lem the Holy City’ and ‘Ramla in the Sharon, which is near Lod’, from which we may 
deduce that these were the main Karaite congregations, or perhaps the only ones in 
Palestine in that period. One should also take note of the formula of ‘the 50 pieces of silver, 
bridal money for virginity’, which we also find in the Karaite formulary, as well as in 
marriage deeds; of the term darkemomm, dinars, common in these documents (also used by 
the Rabbanites, however: see the Hebrew Index); of the matter of the muqddm (early) and 
me ’ulidr (final) bridal money, also customary among them; and of the note at the end of the 
divorce form ( 303 , 3), that the divorce document has to be given to the wife in the presence 
of two witnesses, and that among the Rabbanites, the wife’s confirmation was required 
(here they evidently were thinking about mixed marriages). Generally, it can be seen that 
the Karaite deeds were imitations of Rabbanite deeds, translated from Aramaic to 
Hebrew, with certain improvements, mostly in a not polished language; they do not 
display a high standard of learning or knowledge of the language. One should also note the 


803 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


[933] The Karaites held themselves in great esteem. This was undoubt¬ 
edly linked with their missionary character and their efforts to make 
converts to their beliefs among the Rabbanites. Their major claim was that 
they were maskile ha-rabblm (instruct the many) and masdiqe ha-rabbim (turn 
many to righteousness), expressions taken from the book of Daniel, 
which were interpreted, naturally, as meaning imparting knowledge and 
guidance ( maskil being understood as the participle of the causative pat¬ 
tern, and not as it is meant today). As we have already seen, they referred 
to themselves as shoshanim from the ‘chief musician on the shoshanim’ in 
the Psalms, chapter 45. Daniel al-Qumisi and the Bible commentators of 
the tenth century, such as Salmon b. Yeruhim, Sahl b. Masllah and Yefet 
b. ‘All attached these labels to the Karaites as tokens of self-esteem. Sahl b. 
Masllah, in his epistle, expounds on the ‘threescore valiant men’ of the 
Song of Solomon (iii:7), referring to the Karaites: ‘they are the sixty wise 
men ... maskilim, who admonish and teach Israel’. Yefet b. ‘All expounds 
on the masdiqe ha-rabbim as relating to the Karaites (though he does not call 
them by name, it is impossible to mistake his meaning) as those who 
would replace corruption with faith, as it is said in Malachi, ii:6: ‘and did 
turn many away from iniquity’; those who mourn over the exile while 
others feed the people with al-khurdjat (fairy tales). He also interprets the 
‘threescore valiant men’ of Solomon as the sixty maskilim, that is, the 
Karaites who would come from the diaspora to Jerusalem, who are the 
pride and glory of the nation. In his commentary to Isaiah, lv:2 (‘hearken 
diligently unto me, and eat ye that which is good’), Yefet divides the 
nation into four categories: (1) the exilarchs, who claim that they are the 
‘people of knowledge’; (2) the ignorant masses who ‘lack knowledge’ and 
do not want to know, and all they know and have reverence for is coming 
to the synagogue on the sabbath and saying amen and shema' isra’el; (3) 
those people who want to learn but seek knowledge from the exilarchs, 
who stuff them with fiction from the Talmud and magic, while taking 
considerable sums of money from them but not teaching them anything 
useful; (4) the maskilim and the masdiqe ha-rabbim who are absorbed in their 
studies and do not accept payment; who are the Karaites, of course. 

In principle, the Karaites were primarily ‘hasteners of the coming of the 
Messiah’, assuming that by increasing their activities, they would bring 
about the redemption. From this aspect, it appears that there was actually 
some kind of continuity between them and the messianic sects mentioned 
in earlier generations of the Muslim period. In this respect, the statements 

appointment of a trustee, that is, a representative of the bride, found in Karaite marriage 
deeds, and this seems to be the result of Muslim influence (the wait); cf. Goitein, Mediter¬ 
ranean Society, III, 104, who also raises the possibility that this is an ancient Palestinian 
custom, which is less likely; see on this matter also: Friedman, Marriage, 1, pp. 229ff. 

804 



BELIEFS AND OPINIONS [SECS. 928-934] 


of a Karaite Bible commentator of the time are particularly characteristic, 
according to whom ‘the breaker is come up before them’ (Micah, ii: 13), is 
intended as breaking out of the prison, which is the exile, by virtue of the 
maskilim, the shoshanim, who would bring about salvation through their 
piety and endless prayers. To this end, the Karaites made their computa¬ 
tions of the End of Days, such as the computation of one Karaite com¬ 
mentator on Psalms, who evidently wrote at the beginning of the year 
1335/6 Sel., that is, the autumn of AD 1024. This computation is based on 
Psalms, xc:4. The copy is faded and it is impossible to make out the details 
of his computation; only the principle is discernible. True, nine years had 
passed since the anticipated year of redemption, but one has to increase the 
number of years because of the length of‘the night watches’, and in any 
case, redemption is at hand, owing to the prayers of the maskilim. 

The Gaon Solomon b. Judah was infuriated by the vain pretensions of 
the Karaites, clearly expressing the accepted opinion of the Jewish public 
at the time. They consider themselves lilies ( shoshamm ) and their fellow- 
men thorns, calling themselves masktlim, even though ‘there is no agree¬ 
ment among them as to who is a maskil’. Actually, the Rabbanites were 
also given to applying to themselves such terms as masktlim and masdiqim. 
This is the case, for instance, in Abraham b. David ibn Sughmar’s letter to 
theNagid ofQayrawan, Jacob b. ‘Amram. Solomon b. Judah himself, in a 
letter to Ephraim b. Shemaria, writes in favour of scholars who are 
content with little: ‘and they should be considered as belonging to the 
maskilim and masdiqim in the eternal nation, and made to shine as the 
brightness of the firmament’ (Dan., xii:3), etc. Daniel b. Azariah calls 
someone he is writing to, evidently one of the notables of Fustat, ‘the 
elder, the maskil'. In a letter from the yeshiva written (evidently) by Elijah 
ha-Kohen b. Solomon, we find him complaining that ‘there are no more 
any maskilim or masdiqim, those who recognise the truth’. Also, someone 
addressing a query to Daniel b. Azariah wishes that God ‘may make your 
face shine, like the light of the masdiqe ha-rabbim, like the stars’. There is 
nothing surprising in this, for all these terms are taken from the Bible, 
from Isaiah and from Daniel, and the Rabbanites did not refrain from 
using them even though they were certainly aware of their peculiar 
semantic usage by the Karaites. 17 

17 See the matter of the masktlim: Wieder, Judean Scrolls, 105-177. Shoshamm: see for instance 
Salmon b. Yeruhim, Sefer Milhamot, 57-65; Daniel al-QumisI, in Marmorstein, Zion 
(ha-me’assef), 3(1928/9), 37, 39, 40; and see in Schechter, Saadyana, 41ff, TS 8 K 3, which 
is evidently a fragment of a polemical work of Saadia Gaon against Daniel al-QumisI, 
which mentions the book the latter wrote ‘le-haskil [to teach] the nation about inheritance’. 
Sahl b. Masllah, in Pinsker, Liqqute qadmoniyot, II, 36. Ben-Sasson, Shalem, 2(1975/6), 
3, tried to deduce from the homily on the ‘threescore valiant men’, that there was indeed 
such a group of 60 Karaites, but this is obviously merely theological construction. Yefet b. 
‘Alt, Commentary on Daniel, 140; see also his commentary on Psalms, xlii:l 


805 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


[934] Whereas they were familiar with the Islamic world, having come 
from the East, principally from Persia, the Karaites’ first encounter with 
the Christians in Jerusalem must have been something of a novelty to 
them. We come across indications of this here and there, particularly 
during the Byzantines’ drive and advance in the tenth century, as we have 
seen above (sec. 550) in the discussion on the events of that period. We find 
Salmon b. Yeruhim complaining about the Christians’ claim that the time 
of the Jews had passed, that God had had enough of them, and that from 
then onward, the Christians were the chosen and a new era had come. In 
his comments on the parable of the chariots in Zechariah, vi:l—7, he states 
that the first represented idol-worshippers; the second, the believers in 
two authorities, the light and the darkness, who are the Zoroastrians 
(al-majus) - called ‘the black’; the third, the philosophers seeking knowl¬ 
edge, while the fourth represented those who deny everything, i.e. Ish- 
mael, the Muslims, who pretend to believe in the unity of God, and Edom 
(the Christians), who believe in the Trinity. As to Islam, while we find 
Daniel al-QumisI relying on its favours, there is an attitude of bitterness 
and resentment among the Bible commentators of the mid-tenth century. 
Salmon expresses this in his comments on Ps., xliii:l (deliver me from the 
deceitful and unjust man): ‘by which he means the realm of the son of 
Hagar, as it is said “through his policy also he shall cause craft to prosper in 
his hand” [Dan., viii:25] . . . the kingdom of the son of the slave-girl, 
which is the most severe and depressing among all of them, as is said in the 
scripture: “dreadful and terrible and strong exceedingly” [Dan., vii:7]; 

(as the hart panteth after the water brooks): ‘these are the masklltm that came from the exile’ 
etc.; and his commentary to Zech., xi:4-14, in Wieder , Judean Scrolls, 119, n. 1 (BM Or 
2401, f. 2146), and see Wieder’s discussion there, and the parallel in Pinsker, Liqqute 
qadmoniyot , II, 36. Yefet’s commentary on Isaiah: Neubauer, Aus der Petersburger Bibl , 112, 
n. XII; it is somewhat strange that Yefet, who lived injerusalem, speaks of the exilarchs as 
representing the sages of Israel, but it seems that he wrote it when he was still in Babylonia; 
cf. Klar, Tarbiz, 15(1943/4), 43ff, who has a comparison between Yefet’s statements and 
the Damascus covenant: ‘and the sons of Zadok are the elect of Israel .. . and they will 
cause the righteous to be righteous’ ( yasdiqii ), etc. See the chapter ‘Messianism’ in Wieder, 
Judean Scrolls, 95ff and see the quotation from the commentary ibid., 102, n. 2, BM Or 
2401, f. 29b. See the commentary on Psalms, MS Firkovitch I, No. 587, in Mann, Texts, 
lOOff. See also what I have said above, sec. 328, about the Karaite messianic movement 
which had its centre in Baniyas in the twenties of the twelfth century. Solomon b. Judah: 
92, a, lines 18—19; to the Nagid of Qayrawan: 191, line 26. Solomon b. Judah to Ephraim: 
68, lines 11-12. Daniel b. Azariah’s letter: 343, line 19; however the addressee may have 
been one of the Karaite nesi’im. The letter of the yeshiva: 420, b, line 27. The query to 
Daniel b. Azariah: 396, line 41. (See in the BT, Bava batra, 8b: ‘and masdiqe ha-rabbnn; they 
are those who teach little children’.) See the view of Mann on this matter in: Jews, I, 49, n. 
2, who goes as far as to claim that there is no reason to assume that maskil became a 
peculiarly Karaite term, basing his view on an incorrect reading of the Scroll of Ahima'as 
( ha-maskTlitn instead of ha-miskemm), which I have already pointed out above; see also what 
he writes in JQR, NS 9(1918/9), 162, n. 156, where he quotes TS 12.194, b, lines 20-21 
(the responsum of Elhanan b. Hushiel which he prints there, 174): ‘our Rock shall have 


8o6 



THE SOCIAL STRUCTURE OF THE KARAITES [SEC. 935] 

and it also says: “woe is me, that I sojourn in Mesech”’ (Ps., cxx:5). 
Expressions of disdain for the Christians and the Muslims can also be 
found in Yefet b. ‘Ah, such as in his commentary to Ps., v:5 (the foolish 
shall not stand in thy sight): ‘the foolish are the Christians who are 
addicted to eating and drinking and constant merriment and as it is also 
said of them, “of mirth, what doeth it?” (Eccl., ii:2); whereas the workers 
of iniquity are Ishmael, people of deceit and depravity’. On the other 
hand, he still recalls the benefit of legitimacy which Islam accorded Ka- 
raism, unlike former regimes, ‘and it is to this period that the scripture was 
referring, I will rise now and go about the streets’ (Song of Sol., iii:2). 18 


The social structure of the Karaites 

[935] This subject of the Karaite social structure came to the fore with 
the publication of Raphael Mahler’s book on the Karaites. In his opinion, 
the Karaites could be regarded, over a period of several centuries, as a 
national and social liberation movement. The abysmal situation of the 
Jewish masses living in the lands of the caliphate, the taxes and tithes 
demanded of them by the authorities on the one hand, and by their own 
institutions of leadership on the other, the wrongs done by the exilarchs, 
the geonim and the upper class of the learned to the masses - all the 
oppression and discrimination they were subjected to, were in his view 
what nurtured the messianic movements at the beginning of the eighth 
century, and their heirs, the Karaite sect, as well. 

Counter to Mahler’s view was that of Ben-Sasson, who raised certain 
objections in a critical review of Mahler’s book. He pointed to the severe 
set of laws of the early Karaites, especially those of Benjamin al-Niha- 
wandi, derived from the very nature of Karaism, including its social 
nature, which was influenced by the Muslim Weltanschauung. This set of 
laws is in no way consistent with the ideas of those whom Mahler 
considered the precursors of socialism and democracy among Jews. It is a 
legal system which essentially respects property and property-owners. As 
to Karaite society in general, it consisted of varied elements; there were 
substantial merchants and slave-owners, perhaps even slave-traders (in 
this respect, Ben-Sasson was correct, the proof of which are the Tustaris), 
shop-keepers and craftsmen, and also the poor. They also imposed taxes 
and tithes on their people, even a tithe on the women. They were very 

mercy on us and make us maskilmt, to teach truth, and equitable justice’; and see also 
Zucker, Albeck Jubilee Volume, 385, n. 26, with counter-arguments to Mann. 

18 Salmon b. Yeruhim: see his commentary of Lamentations (MS Paris 295), 51a; the parable 
of Zechariah, in his Commentary on Psalms, lxv;31 (according to the Heb. Bible: Marwick), 
95; on the realm of Ishmael; the commentary on Lamentations (MS Paris 295), 75b. Yefet 
b. ‘All; MS Paris 286, 32a; the commentary on the Song of Solomon, BM Or 2520, 65a. 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


strict about loans and their repayment — the lender preceded orphans in 
their right to have debts repaid, and was even permitted to enslave 
someone who did not repay his debt. 

It is possible that the ascetic way of life that developed among the 
Karaites created the impression of a new direction in social thinking, from 
the days of Daniel al-Qumisi onward, which found its expression in 
demonstrations of mourning customs and refraining from eating meat or 
drinking wine (at least in Jerusalem). It is clear, however, that these 
customs were not observed by all the Karaites, and it is doubtful whether 
they were kept outside of Jerusalem altogether. Hand in hand with ad¬ 
vancing the cause of asceticism, Daniel al-Qumisi set himself against the 
charitable system created by the Rabbanites, which was based on the 
foundations of the heqdesh. In his commentary on Hosea, viii:13 (the 
sacrifices of mine offerings) he explains that it means gifts which (the 
Rabbanites) in exile (that is, after the destruction of the Temple) give to the 
poor, seeing them as replacing the sacrifices, something which ‘the Lord 
accepteth them not’. Salmon b. Yeruhim praises the ‘poor of Israel’ who 
seek the protection of God, according to Ps., lxxirl (In thee, O Lord, do I 
put my trust). However, this is merely a theological construction based on 
passages in the Bible, the likes of which we find in the New Testament and 
the literature of the Judaean Desert sect. And yet we can recognise, to a 
certain extent, the influence which the actual living conditions of the first 
Karaites in Jerusalem had on these writings. Some of the Karaites did 
indeed live in conditions of poverty and distress, after having left their 
homes and property behind, as Sahl b. Masliah says in his letter, and were 
subjected to persecution on the part of the Rabbanites in Jerusalem (prob¬ 
ably because of their eagerness to win them over to Karaism). Sahl is 
particularly vehement against the leaders of the Jewish population in 
Jerusalem, the Rabbanites, who wanted the Karaites, even the poor 
among them, to participate in paying the tax imposed on the Jews of 
Jerusalem (a question I have dealt with in detail in secs. 246-254): ‘and they 
force them to take [money] against interest and give it to them, and they 
take it from them and give it to the rulers, so that they give them support 
[i.e. to the Rabbanites], against them’. It emerges from what Sahl himself 
says, however, that most of the Karaite immigrants came from the mer¬ 
chant class. 

In Egypt, there were some enormously wealthy people, as well as some 
who were also close to the rulers, among the Karaites who left Persia and 
Iraq; most outstanding among these were the Tustaris. There were others, 
too, however. Goitein states that the Karaites, on the basis of what we 
know about them from the Geniza, were in general wealthier than the 
Rabbanites. Two of their marriage deeds from Palestine, which are in- 


808 



KARAITES IN THE ELEVENTH CENTURY [SECS. 936-940] 


eluded in my collection, are evidence of great riches. On the other hand, 
we also find in the documents of the period, Karaites who were making 
cheese on the Mount of Olives, a Damascene weaver whom the auth¬ 
orities had enslaved in a workshop, and Moses b. Isaac, the Spanish 
immigrant who lived in Jerusalem on the bounty of donations from his 
congregation in Spain. 19 


The Karaites and their leaders in the eleventh century 

[936] I have already discussed extensively the matter of the immigration 
of the Karaites and their settlement in Jerusalem, as well as of the Karaite 
quarter there, the Samareitike (secs. 824—827; 848). The only Karaite 
congregation we have some substantive knowledge of, apart from that of 
Jerusalem, was the congregation in Ramla. We have already encountered 
the mention of the Karaite congregation in a number of places, in Solomon 
b. Judah’s letters, in the letters relating to the dispute with Nathan b. 
Abraham, and elsewhere. There is an interesting colophon in a book of the 
Bible found by a certain ‘Azriqam the scribe in the synagogue ‘of the 
Prophet Samuel’, ‘kept by our brethren the Karaites . . . and dedicated by 
him to the Karaite congregation in Ramla’. It is dated 407 ‘of the little 
horn’ (AH 407 began on 10 April AD 1016), on Monday, the first of‘the 
first month’, evidently meaning Nisan, and hence, they are referring to the 
spring of 1017. That book of the Bible was left with a certain Mevasser b. 
Isaac. In another colophon, the library of a certain Abu’l-Faraj Ya'qub is 

19 Mahler, Karaimer, 21 (and in Hebrew: 17); Ben-Sasson, Zion 15(1958), 42-54. Daniel 
al-Qumisi, Pitron , 13. Salmon, Commentary on Psalms (Marwick), 107. See ibid., 117, his 
commentary to Ps., lxxii:4: "these good tidings were brought by the prophets to the exiles 
ahl al-jaliya, the poor and destitute. . . know ye that the Messiah, when he comes, will seek 
justice for these poor’; it is clear that here he is calling the entire Jewish nation "the poor’. 
On the matter of‘the poor’ in Karaite writings, cf.: Wieder , Judean Scrolls, 121 f, 125ff, 204. 
The letter of Sahl b. Masliah, in Pinsker, Liqqute qadmoniyot; II, 31F; see also what he says, 
in Harkavy, Me'assef, No. 13, 198: ‘they left their business, forgot their families, rejected 
their homeland’. See on the economic status of the Tustaris and their circle: Gil, ha- 
Tustartm , 29ff; see Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 7; III, 52, 101. See the Rabbanite- 
Karaite marriage deed from Fustat dated Elul 1428 Sel., August AD 1117, Bodl MS Heb a 
3, f. 42: the Rabbanite Yahya son of‘the important physician Abraham' marries the 
Karaite widow Rayyisa daughter of Saadia b. David; her dowry is worth 719 dinars, an 
enormous sum by any standard. Also in the Karaite marriage deed 304, from the year 
1009, Ramla, the sum mentioned is 200 dinars, a very pretty sum indeed; the details of the 
dowry have only been partly preserved, but it contained a number of very valuable 
objects, and also two houses in Ramla worth 400 dinars. Similarly 305, from Jerusalem, 
1028, in which the amounts are more modest, yet also greater than was customary. An 
interesting addition to all this is the fragment 305a. We learn from this that the Karaite 
David ha-Levi b. Isaac also had a house in Tyre, where the document was written. 
Another of his daughters was married to "Adi b. Manasseh b. al-Qazzaz (see on the father, 
Manasseh, and on the son: supra, sec. 560). 


809 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


mentioned, for whomYefet b. ‘All’s commentaries on Ruth and on the 
Song of Solomon were copied, most likely in ca. 1000. 

It is uncertain whether the Karaites had a synagogue injerusalem during 
this period. In the sources, only a majlis is mentioned, which may have 
been a hall in the home of one of the Karaites. In a colophon in a Bible from 
the Firkovitch collection mentioned above, it says that the Bible would be 
kept in ‘the compound ofjoseph b. Bakhta way’. Nathan b. Isaac, a Karaite 
who lived in Jersualem, mentions the majlis of the Karaites there and 
whenever he passes it, he writes, he is stricken with yearning. In this 
majlis, the lessons of Yeshu‘a b. Judah (Abu’l-Faraj Furqan b. Asad) were 
held. It was also the address to which Karaites sent money for Jerusalem, 
or so it is implied from what he writes. There seems to have been a 
difference between the majlis and a synagogue, for there is mention of a 
Karaite synagogue in Ramla and we also know of their synagogue in 
Fustat. At the same time, Solomon b. Semah writes from Ramla about 
rumours concerning people who abandon the synagogue of the Pal¬ 
estinians in Fustat and go over to the majalis al-qara’iyln, and one must 
admit that this matter is not at all clear. Nor do we find among the Karaites 
during this period, those titles that were customary among the Rabba- 
nites, such as rosh yesliiva, av-bet-dm, rosh kalla, and so on. I ascribed above 
the mention of such titles in earlier generations to the fact that they 
preceded the final secession of the house of ‘ Anan (such as the matter of the 
heads of the yeshiva, Jehoshaphat and Semah); one cannot consider 
anyone bearing these Rabbanite titles as Karaites; they were merely de¬ 
scendants of the exilarchic family, the progeny of‘Anan. 20 

20 At this juncture, one should note that the letter: JNUL 4°577.3, No. 11, edited by Yellin, 
Kiryat Sefer, 1(1924), 56-59; and also in his article in English: JPOS, 4(1924), 124-127, is 
from the fourteenth century and it is difficult to understand how the editor ascribed it to 
the 12th century, when there were almost no Jews injerusalem; and there is certainly no 
foundation to what is said in the Sefer ha-yishuv, 47, n. 39, that it is from the eleventh 
century. Aaron (Harun) ibn Saghlr of al-Qahira, who is mentioned there on verso, line 1, 
is mentioned in a memorial list- TS 8 K 22, f. 2: ‘Aaron the honoured prince’, etc.; he was 
a contemporary of the Karaite writer Yefet b. Sa‘Ir (perhaps his brother) known from the 
fourteenth century; see Mann, Texts, II, 211, n. 20. Another assumption lacking any 
foundation is that of Kook, Ginze qedem, 4(1930), 107-110, about three Karaite localities in 
thejerusalem area: Giv'a, Rama, Barqa. Only the title of his article: ‘An unknown Karaite 
centre’, is correct. The dedication in Ramla: from a Bible MS which belonged to Firko¬ 
vitch, in Poznanski, Yerushalayim (Luncz), 10(1914), 115. The Karaite synagogue ‘of the 
Prophet Samuel’ was evidently in Ramla; in this colophon there is also the date AM 4373, 
but it is not consistent with that of the AH, and it seems that the Karaites in Ramla used a 
different era of the creation (the differences in the computation of the era of the creation I 
have already dealt with above); a Mevasser b. Isaac is mentioned in a marriage deed edited 
by Assaf, Tarbiz, 9(1937/8), 26ff, from a locality in Egypt, the name of which has not been 
preserved; it is very doubtful whether he is the same person to whom Poznanski is 
referring there; see the marriage deed (with the addition of some related fragments which 
were unknown to Assaf): Friedman, Marriage, II, 5—11 and see ibid., 2f. The library of 
Abu’l-Faraj Ya'qub: BM Or 2554, in Horning, Six Karaite Manuscripts, 11. The compound 

8lO 



KARAITES IN THE ELEVENTH CENTURY [SECS. 936-940] 


[937] We have already witnessed something of the relationship between 
the Karaites and the Rabbanites, in the discussion on their contacts with 
the rulers, for as we have seen, both communities were requesting the 
intervention of the authorities in their quarrels. Obviously, the Karaites’ 
attitude to the Rabbanites was critical in the extreme. Possibly the most 
apt expression of this attitude can be found in Sahl b. Masliah’s ‘letter of 
rebuke’; apart from his denouncement of their worshipping graves and 
their consumption of forbidden foods, which I have already mentioned, 
he claims that they pretend they are the Sanhedrin; they desecrate the 
sabbath and pay mutual visits ‘to eat and to drink’ on the sabbath; they 
invite gentiles to share their meals; they ‘carry the coffins of the dead in the 
gentile fashion, nor do they sit the proscribed seven days in mourning’. 
True, there were some Rabbanites in Ramla, he writes, who learned from 
the Karaites, by which he may have meant that their propaganda had 
borne fruit and they had succeeded in winning them over to their teach¬ 
ings, a situation which enables us to understand the sharp reaction of the 
Rabbanites. The traditionists among the Rabbanites (those engaged in 
taqlid, a term taken from the Muslims), such as Saadia Gaon (al-Fayyumi) 
and others ‘had brought perdition on Israel’, says Yefet b. ‘All, in his 
commentary on Ps., xxv:14 (The secret of the Lord is with them that fear 
him). Comparatively early evidence of the Palestinian Rabbanites’ attitude 
to all this can be found perhaps in the Scroll of Ahlm'as, in the story of the 
excommunication of Silano, a man of Venosa in southern Italy who 
ridiculed the preacher who came to the town. The people of the Palestinian 
yeshiva cancelled the ban, however, because of an innovation which 


of b. Bakhtaway, see in Kahle, Masoreten des Western, 67, and in Mann, Texts, II, 134; 
Ankori, Karaites in Byzantium, translates baser: courtyard, which is not correct. Nathan b. 
Isaac: 297. Solomon b. Semah:205. Pinkerfeld, Luncz Memorial Volume, 215, assumed that 
there were hints that the Karaite synagogue in Jerusalem was built in the eleventh century 
or the beginning of the twelfth. As to the first possibility, this is not likely, as there is no 
information on a Karaite synagogue in Jerusalem during that period; the second possibility 
is out of the question, because the Crusaders then controlledjerusalem. What is said here 
about the lack of Rabbanite titles among the Karaites contradicts the view of Wieder, 
Judean Scrolls, 90f; Goitein, Mediterranean Society, II, 166; 555, n. 44, assumed that the majlis 
of the Karaites was actually a synagogue, but that they preferred not to call it so in order to 
evade the Muslim ban on erecting places of prayer on sites where they had not existed 
before the Muslim conquest. It is worth quoting here Sahl b. Masllah’s epistle, where he 
mentions as one of the changes for the better brought about by Islam, the permission to 
‘His nation’, that is the Karaites, to build ‘places’ injerusalem for ‘reading and expounding 
and praying at any time and setting up night-watches’; see in Harkavy, Me’assef, No. 13, 
p. 199, and see the commentary of Wieder, ibid., 103, n. 2. It is also typical that in the 
colophons of the Bible belonging to the Karaites ofjerusalem which have reached us, it 
says in general, that the Bible is dedicated ‘to the Karaite congregation’ or only ‘to the 
Karaites’, not to the synagogue. See for instance the colophon in the Bible in the Karaite 
synagogue in Cairo: Gottheil, JQR, 17(1905), 639f, No. 34: ‘to the Karaites injerusalem 
the Holy City'; and only in a later period is it inscribed: ‘in the synagogue of al-Qahira’. 

8i i 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


Silano had introduced into one of the piyyutun, which were evidently part 
of the prayers for the Day of Atonement. These were changes in praise of 
the Rabbanites, placing blame on the mTmm, possibly meaning the Ka¬ 
raites. This seems to have occurred towards the end of the ninth century, 
when the Karaites were arriving and settling in Jerusalem. 

More basic information concerning the conflict between the Rabbanites 
and the Karaites in Jerusalem is to be found primarily from the beginning 
of the thirties of the eleventh century, after the continuous warfare be¬ 
tween the Fatimids and the Palestinian tribes had ceased. A strong faction 
in the yeshiva, headed by the priestly brothers, Joseph and Elijah, sons of 
Solomon Gaon, tried to renew the tradition of proclaiming a ban on the 
Karaites on Hosha‘na rabba, during the assembly on the Mount of Olives. 
The formula of the ban was apparently: ‘on the eaters of meat with milk’. 
Solomon b. Judah objected to the renewal of this custom, undoubtedly 
because he was a restrained and peace-loving man, but probably also out 
of concern for the distressing state that existed at the time, and the 
dependence on the goodwill of the Tustari brothers, who were Karaites. 
The question of the ban held the masses spellbound, and they even 
refrained from throwing their contributions ‘on the robe’ as was custom¬ 
ary, for they were too occupied with the thought of the excommuni¬ 
cation. ‘The third’, Tobiah b. Daniel, also tried to influence the people to 
accept the Gaon’s opinion, but to no avail. The two priestly brothers, 
together with Abraham, the son of the Gaon, proclaimed the ban, and the 
rest is known: the two brothers were arrested and taken to prison in 
Damascus. 

The resentment and rivalry led to the Karaites libelling the Rabbanites, 
saying that some of them had made three figures (evidently drawings) and 
burnt them. There were consultations over this matter in the majlis situ¬ 
ated in the Jewish market (apparently they are referring to the site of the 
yeshiva in Jerusalem, probably meaning: a hall); those present pressed the 
Gaon to declare a ban on the libellers and he was forced, it is implied, to 
submit to their demands. Solomon b. Judah displays a great deal of 
restraint in the letter in which he describes this, and although he has much 
to complain of in terms of the Karaites’ behaviour and their arrogance, he 
does not think they should be excommunicated and cut off from the 
Rabbanites entirely. He also stresses the fact of the mixed marriages 
between the two communities, which are mainly to the advantage of the 
Karaites. They multiply, says the Gaon, with the help of the Rabbanites, 
who give their daughters in marriage to them; and he recalls that this was 
how the tribe of Judah had behaved, when they did not prevent their 
daughters from marrying into other tribes of Israel, even when the latter 
worshipped idols. Indeed, these mixed marriages were an indication of the 


812 



KARAITES IN THE ELEVENTH CENTURY [SECS. 936-9401 


link that still existed between the two communities despite the differences. 
(There are quite a few documents in the Geniza which give evidence of 
mixed marriages; we have seen above the matter of the marriage of David 
b. Daniel to the daughter of a Karaite, for instance. Generally, the ‘mixed’ 
marriage deed contained provision about the mutual respect for the other’s 
customs with regard to holidays and foods, such as the fragment of a 
marriage deed in which the woman undertakes not to feed her husband 
meat ‘not slaughtered by the Rabbanites’ and not ‘to desecrate his 
holidays’.) 

In the continuation of his letter, Solomon b. Judah mentions the serious 
affliction caused by the custom of proclaiming these excommunications, 
for it brings about the intervention of the authorities, as we have seen. 
Strained relations between Rabbanites and Karaites are also felt in the letter 
of the Damascene weaver, who complains that the Rabbanite Jews (who 
dominate the entire branch of weaving) denounced him to the authorities. 

On the other hand, there was also a certain degree of collaboration. 
Solomon b. J udah tells how he fulfilled the role of cantor for the Karaites in 
Ramla - before he became Gaon, naturally - and that he would pray on one 
day with the Rabbanites and on the other, with the Karaites. He himself 
treats this information jestingly. The ties and the mutual involvement are 
mainly revealed during the internal struggles in the yeshiva, when each of 
the parties tries to attract the Karaites to their side. We have seen that 
Nathan b. Abraham succeeded in this, owing to his personal contacts, 
particularly with the Tustaris. This also applies to Daniel b. Azariah in his 
struggle with Joseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon, and also to David, the son of 
Daniel, in his struggle against the Palestinian yeshiva and its head, 
Abiathar ha-Kohen. 21 

21 Sahl b. Masliah, in Pinsker, Liqqute qadmoniyot, II, 32f. Yefet b. ‘All, Commentary on 
Daniel, 141; sec the Scroll of Ahima‘a_s, 16f; see the original piyyut: Marcus, PAAJR, 
5(1933-4), 85—91, see also Davidson, Osar, I, 311 (No. 6844). Cf. Starr, Jews, 102. The 
matter of the ban: 85. The burning of the images: 92, a, lines 30ff; the matter of the libel is 
not clear; what these three images depicted or represented, we do not know, but it seems 
to have been clear to the people at the time, for Solomon b. Judah, writing about it, does 
not think it necessary to go into details. See the matter of the excommunication of the 
Karaites also in 122. Also 327, to the extent that it can be read, speaks of the opposition of 
the Gaon to the excommunication of the Karaites; it mentions that the Karaites desecrate 
the Day of Atonement (by fixing its date differently from the Rabbanites), and also speaks 
of matters concerning meat with milk. The ban and its dire results are also described in 
433. The letter of the Damascene Karaite: 291. Solomon b. Judah as cantor: 75, a, lines 2—6. 
A general survey of the points on which the early Karaite leaders attacked the Rabbanites 
can be found in Mann, Texts, II, 49ff. He covers there matters of ritual, folk customs, 
dietary rules, superstitions and mystic beliefs. See what Solomon b. Judah writes on 
marriage with the Karaites: 92, a, lines 24ff. See the fragment of the marriage deed: TS 
8.223; it is signed by ‘ ‘Eli ha-Kohen the cantor b. R. Hezekiah ha-Kohen he-haver in the 
Great Sanhedrin’; from which we learn that it is a Jerusalem marriage deed, dated about the 
mid-eleventh century. Cf. Golb, in Jewish Medieval and Renaissance Studies, 11; see dis- 


813 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


[938] Jerusalem continued to be the most important centre for the 
Karaites in the eleventh century as well. Their major figure at the start of 
the century was Abu Ya'qub Joseph ha-Kohen b. Abraham, who is 
al-Basir (‘the seer’; this is of course of a euphemism; in Hebrew: ha-Ro’e; 
that is, he was blind). He had a house in Jerusalem, where he expounded 
his teaching. Joseph al-Basir was one of the pupils ofjoseph ibn Noah. He 
wrote many treatises, among them a book of precepts ( kitdb al-istibsaar ), 
which he completed, according to Ibn al-Hiti, in AH 428, that is AD 
1036/7; as well as philosophical works, such as ‘the comprehensive book’ 
(al-muhtawi), which was translated by his pupil Tobiah b. Moses as sefer 
ha-ne'imot , of which we know of a chapter entitled sefer ha-mo'adim: the 
book of discrimination ( kitdb al-tamyiz), also translated by Tobiah and 
entitled mahkimat. pett (‘making wise the simple’, Ps., xix:7); and other 
writings which have not been preserved. In his book of precepts, Joseph 
al-Basir, was the first to oppose the excessive severity of the Karaites with 
regard to incest regulations. According to Poznanski, he died in ca. 1040. 

A contemporary ofjoseph al-Basir was Abu’l-Faraj Harun b. al-Faraj, a 
grammarian and Bible commentator, mentioned by subsequent gram¬ 
marians as ‘thejerusalemite grammarian’. His major work: ‘The compre¬ 
hensive book of roots and derivations in the Hebrew language’, was 
completed in Rajab AH 417 (July AD 1026). Apart from this, he wrote 
al-kitab al-kaft (‘the sufficient book’), which was considered a continuation 
(the eighth part) of the former work. Two pages of another of his gram¬ 
matical works have been preserved and edited by Hirschfeld, namely from 
‘the book of strings in Hebrew usage’. He also wrote a book on the 
Aramaic of the Bible. He was still alive in 1048, as we can see from Tobiah 
b. Moses’ letter. 

Tobiah b. Moses was evidently one ofjoseph al-Basir’s pupils. He came 
from Constantinople to Jerusalem to study with the Karaite personalities 
there, and was known by the nicknames ha-ma'atiq (‘the copier’; because of 
his translations and being a scribe), ha-baqT (‘the erudite’), ha-'oved, (o v.ha- 
‘eved; ‘the worshipper’, or: ‘the slave’). 

We find references to him in Eshkol ha-kofer, where it is said that Tobiah 
ha-masktl, and other Karaite scholars from Constantinople addressed 
queries to thejerusalemite Karaite scholars, the avele maskile (‘the mourn¬ 
ers among the maskilim) of the Holy City of Jerusalem. From what is 
known from Karaite sources, he went up to Jerusalem and studied there, 
and above we have seen that he translated some treatises of his master, 
Joseph al-Basir, from Arabic into Hebrew. He also wrote a number of 

cussions on the subject in Assaf, Be-ohole ya'aqdv, 182ff; Friedman, Marriage , II, 3, 290f, 
notes that he has identified fifteen marriage deeds and other documents which relate to 
marriages between Rabbanites and Karaites. 

814 



KARAITES IN THE ELEVENTH CENTURY [SECS. 936-940] 


books: Osar nehmad, which is a discussion on the book of Leviticus, in 
which he also included quotations from other writers, such as the nasi 
David b. Boaz and Yefet b. ‘All; Yehime’drot, a treatise which has been lost 
and about which we know nothing; and piyyutTm, two of which were 
known and included in the Karaite prayer book. He is also credited with 
having written a philosophical work, Meshivat nefesh, but Vajda has estab¬ 
lished that it is not Tobiah who wrote it. 

Following on an account by Elijah Bashyatchi, in his epistlejutf ha-ndshe, 
there were some who assumed that Tobiah was the pupil of Yeshu‘a b. 
Judah (Abu’l-Faraj Furqan b. Asad), for the aforementioned speaks of‘our 
Master Tobiah the copier’ who went to ‘our Master Yeshu‘a and studied 
there and transcribed his books from the Arabic language to the holy 
tongue and brought them to Constandina’ (which is Constantinople). The 
Geniza documents show that Tobiah was a contemporary ofYeshu‘a, and 
perhaps even somewhat older. 22 

[939] As I have mentioned, there are writings in the Geniza by Tobiah b. 
Moses which shed light on the period of his stays in Palestine and Egypt. It 
seems that he spent a considerable amount of time in the Muslim lands, 
and one can go even further and assume that he came from a family which 
had emigrated from a Muslim country to Constantinople, because of the 
distinctive Arabic influence which is very obvious in his Hebrew letters, 
and also because he wrote in Arabic. 

Out of the four letters which have been preserved in the Geniza, the first 
is in fact written in Arabic. He wrote it injerusalem in the spring of1040 or 
thereabouts and it is addressed to his daughter. And therein lies his 

22 On Joseph al-Basir: Poznanski, Yerushalayim (Luncz), 10(1913/4), 102ff; idem, JQR, 
19(1906/7), 63ff; see Hirschfeld, JQR, NS 8(1917/8), 167ff, who quotes a fragment dealing 
with the defence of the method of analogy (qiyas): BM Or 2580, fs. 44ff, which he ascribes 
to Joseph al-Basir; see Skoss, in his edition of ‘Ali b. Sulayman, 7, n. 35; see further 
references: Ankori, Karaites in Byzantium, 81, n. 65; and see idem,JJS, 8:71, 1957, where he 
defends Poznanski’s opinion that Joseph al-Basir died in ca. 1040, not in 1048 as Alexander 
Marx claimed; his reliance on the silence of Tobiah b. Moses in his letter, 295, does not 
support his claim, for the letter dates from 1048, not 1041 as he assumed. It is possible that 
Joseph al-Basir is identical withjoseph b. Abraham ha-Kohen, who was appointed trustee 
by the Karaite marriage deed 305, dated January 1028; and it is also possible that a certain 
ha-Kohen b. Joseph in the fragment of the marriage deed 308, line 9, is the son ofal-BasIr. 
On AbtiTFaraj Harun: Harkavy, ZAW, 1(1881), 158; Poznanski, Yerushalayim (Luncz), 
10(1913/4), 104ff; Poznanski, REJ, 33:24, 197, 1896; ibid.. 56:42, 1908; Hirschfeld, JQR, 
NS 13:1, 1922/3; idem. Literary History, 50-53; see further references: Ankori, Karaites in 
Byzantium, 185, n. 64. On Tobiah b. Moses see Eshkol ha-kofer, 76a (alphabetically, 187); 
the version is not at all clear, and one may also understand that it is the sages of 
Constantinople who asked Tobiah; see Poznanski's article in Encyclopaedia Osar Isra'el s. v., 
and details thereon his writings and piyyutTm; see Vajda, Baneth Memorial Volume, 103; see 
notes on his piyyutTm in Neubauer, Aus der Petersburger Bibliothek, 147; Ankori, S. W. 
Baron Presentation Volume: 1; idem, Karaites in Byzantium, according to the Index. See Elijah 
Bashyatchi, Aderet, at the beginning of the book. On the matter of the time of Tobiah, see 
also Ankori, Tarbiz, 25(1956/7), 44ff. 


815 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


singular personal story. He had married a Christian woman who bore him 
a daughter, to whom he is writing this letter. The daughter is having a 
difficult time, he says, and suffers and is even begging for her bread 
because of the mother. His own situation is excellent, with ample finances, 
in view of his post as supervisor of the state’s estates in Palestine (it seems 
that this is how we are to understand his text). As we know from his other 
letters about his contacts with the Tustari brothers, we may assume that it 
was due to the latter that he obtained such a post. He ponders over his 
daughter’s state of mind - does she see herself as a Jewess or as a Christian? 
In the letter, his wife’s sister is also mentioned. He expresses the desire to 
ransom his daughter, and it is naturally difficult to understand what he 
means by this; it is possible that both his wife and his daughter were 
enslaved to someone. He writes that he is intending to travel to his 
Byzantine homeland, ‘to the Byzantine lands, to my country and family’. 

The next letter is to Abu Sa‘d Abraham al-Tustari, in which Tobiah calls 
himself‘your servant Tobiah, the thin’. He writes out of distress, for he 
has undergone many troubles. Apparently his relationship with the Tusta- 
ris has deteriorated, but he nevertheless turns to them. This letter was 
written in Egypt, that is (it seems) he has lost his post in Palestine, which 
need not surprise us, as such things must have been everyday occurrences 
as a result of the constant reversals within the Fatimid court. He has with 
him in Egypt another two people, members of his family evidently, but he 
does not go into any detail about them. A certain Abu’l-Faraj Hiba, 
apparently one of the intimates of the Tustaris, told him that Abraham 
al-Tustarf is angry with him ‘because I dw'elt among you’; he therefore 
surmises that his coming to Fustat was a burden to his benefactors and that 
his presence is not wanted. He thus decided to return ‘to my country and 
homeland and family’ (exactly as he wrote to his daughter in the above- 
mentioned letter). The only reason for his coming to Fustat was his fear of 
the tax authorities. Therefore he asks the Tustari to obtain an authorisation 
(ketav) for him, in order that he should not experience once again what he 
had suffered in Tinnis (Hanes), when he needed the intervention of the 
Tustaris after he was put in prison. Then he still had the money to pay 
bribes, but now he had none. We may assume that this is how he recalls his 
arrival in Egypt for the first time, perhaps as many as fifteen years earlier, 
when he was greeted with the reception usually reserved for people 
coming to Egypt from one of the Christian countries (see sec. 721, the 
story of the Christian traveller, the monk Bernard). Here too we find 
evidence of his Byzantine origin. He expresses gratitude and adds greet¬ 
ings to Abraham al-Tustarl for ‘everything that was done with me and 
with everyone in all the congregations of the land of Edom, near and far’. 
He also promises that he will see to it that blessings are said over the 


816 



KARAITES IN THE ELEVENTH CENTURY [SECS. 936-940] 


Tustari in the synagogues (in Byzantium) on every Monday and Thurs¬ 
day, which is an indication that Tobiah occupied a respected status among 
the Byzantine Karaites. He notes that he spent a ‘whole year in the service 
of my illustrious master’ - perhaps referring to his former position of 
supervisor of estates in Palestine. He sees himself as a priest (‘ordained to 
be a priest: ha-husmakh lihyot mazze) among the Karaites, probably not 
meaning a priest by virtue of his lineage, but a spiritual leader, due to his 
teaching, unlike those claiming descent from Aaron, who are like the 
idol-worshippers, and in order to differentiate him from those claiming 
descent from the House of King David. 

In 1048, Tobiah writes from Jerusalem to Perahia b. Mu’ammal, in 
Fustat, formerly one of the followers of Nathan b. Abraham. We find in 
this letter echoes of the terrible events occurring in Egypt, the internal 
wars during which Abraham al-Tustari was murdered. Indeed, Abraham 
is referred to in this letter with the expression ‘May God have mercy on 
him’, and Tobiah speaks of the terrible calamity (‘a breakdown for all of 
Israel’). In addition, Tobiah suffered a number of family tragedies and he is 
in great distress. No one cares for him apart from a few Byzantine (?) 
people who happen to be in Jerusalem. The Karaites do not support him, 
except for Abu’l-Faraj Aaron, who sometimes shows some interest; he 
probably means Abu’l-Faraj Harun, the aforementioned grammarian and 
Bible commentator. Money arrived from Ramla but Tobiah was not 
given any of it. Substantial sums of money ( darkemomm) also arrived from 
theTustaris, fromHesedb. Yashar and Yefetb. Abraham; it was distribu¬ 
ted to everyone but only he was denied any part of it. In this letter, too, he 
writes about setting off on a journey he intends to make, ‘to my home and 
patrimony’ and with this in mind, he asks Perahia to inform him as to 
whom he can leave money which he owes him, before he sets out on his 
way. He also mentions his daughter in the letter, who ‘will not leave my 
heart’, and who is still with her mother, his Christian wife; it would be 
better that the daughter die than to stay ‘with that adulterous woman’. 

The background to Tobiah’s family affairs and his status among the 
Karaites in Jerusalem, who deprived him of all support, as we have seen, 
becomes clear from a fragment of one of his letters, to an addressee not 
known to us. In the interim, there had been dramatic developments - his 
Christian wife (‘the daughter of Edom’) returned to him after cutting off 
her ties with the Church. She left behind her motherland and moved to a 
Muslim land in order to be able to become a Jewess. God must have had a 
hand in the matter, for her family tried to molest her and even to kill her. 
They even slandered and fabricated libels against her. ‘And now she is 
bereaved’, he writes, apparently speaking of the death of the daughter. 
This tragedy is the apparent explanation for her conversion and devotion 


817 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


to Judaism; she was prepared to sacrifice herself, despite coaxing and 
threats on the part of her family and the authorities. She then returned to 
Tobiah (‘my first husband’), to ha-shajala (the low city: Ezek., Heb., 
xxi:31), that is, to Jerusalem. At the end of the fragment, it is implied that 
one of the Christian priests (in Jerusalem?) tried to conspire against 
Tobiah. 

If we summarise the information supplied in these letters, we can say 
that: (1) Tobiah married a Christian Byzantine who bore him a daughter; 
(2) this woman abandoned him; perhaps for this reason or perhaps because 
of plots against him in Byzantium, he came to Palestine (and not only 
because of his thirst for knowledge); (3) on his way to Palestine he was 
assisted by the Tustaris (in Tinnis), established a relationship with them, 
and apparently obtained the appointment as supervisor of the state’s 
estates in Palestine through them; (4) his ties with the Tustaris, and also 
with the Karaites in Jerusalem, were ambivalent, and there were moments 
of anger and rupture, perhaps because of the Christian wife or his oppo¬ 
sition to the Karaite nesi’im, which is implied in one of his letters; and (5) 
after some time, evidently after the death of his daughter, his wife returned 
to him, coming to Jerusalem after converting to Judaism. From all this we 
can conclude that Tobiah did not return to Byzantium, for his proselyte 
wife had fled from there. 23 

[940] One of Tobiah b. Moses’ contemporaries was Abu’l-Faraj Furqan 
b. Asad, who is Yeshu‘a b. Judah, also a pupil of Joseph al-BasIr. Ibn 
al-Hltl mentions his Bible commentary; he says he was the pupil of Levi b. 
Yefet ha-Levi and of Abu’l-Faraj Harun. Abraham b. Da’ud also mentions 
him in his Sefer ha-qabbala, implying that he was the leader of the Karaites 
in Palestine and the teacher and friend of Ibn al-Taras (or Abu’l-Taras), 
who, together with his wife (‘the teacher’ - al-mu'aUima) were the leaders 
of the Karaites in Castile. Under Yeshu‘a b. Judah’s guidance, he writes, 
Ibn al-Taras wrote ‘a book of incitement and misguidance’ and took it 

23 The letters of Tobiah b. Moses: 293-296. Arabic forms of syntax, see for instance: 294, b, 
line 19; he considers himself a priest: 294, a, lines 21-23, see in the notes ibid. Echoes of the 
events: 295, lines 10-14; the death of Abraham al-Tustart: ibid., lines 6—8, 25-27; his 
distress: ibid., 18-21; money from Ramla and Fustat: ibid., 21—22, 24—27. Mann, Texts, I, 
373, and also Ankori, in his abovementioned article (in the Baron Presentation Volume), did 
not identify Abu ‘All Yefet b. Abraham al-Tustari, mentioned there in line 25, although it 
is quite clear, cf. Gil, ha-Tustarm, 43f; the money and starting on the journey: in the same 
letter, 30-34; in the margin there are additional greetings for Abu ‘All Hasan, who is Yefet 
b. Abraham al-Tustarl; see on him Gil, ibid., 58. The above summary is essentially 
different from that of Ankori in his aforementioned article; also what he writes there on the 
schism among the Karaites does not have sufficient foundation. Tobiah evidently made his 
living also by copying books, and indeed he had a fine square script, comparatively easy to 
identify. He is the one who copied ‘the ancient questions’, the rhymed treatise, mentioned 
above several times, as noted also by Fleischer, and see his article: Kiryat Sefer, 
55(1979/80): 183. See also the article of Scheiber, Kiryat Sefer, 55:791, 1979/80, where he 


818 



KARAITES IN THE ELEVENTH CENTURY [SECS. 936-940) 


with him to Castile. Yeshu'a b. Judah was the most outstanding and 
important of the Karaite spiritual leaders at that time. Apart from his Bible 
commentary, he also translated the Bible into Arabic and supplemented a 
short commentary to it. He wrote a treatise of a philosophical homiletic 
nature on the two first pericopes of Genesis, entitled Bereshit rabba. In the 
sphere of the law, his book on incest regulations has been preserved, 
which may have been part of a more comprehensive work, which he called 
Sefer ha-yashar. He tried to abolish the severe laws of the Karaite rikkuv 
mentioned earlier. Those of his works which have been preserved in 
Hebrew are translations from the Arabic, carried out by his contemporary 
Jacob b. Simon, who stemmed from Byzantium, and they contain a great 
many Greek expressions. 

Yeshu'a b. Judah is mentioned in some Geniza documents in my collec¬ 
tion. The Karaite Nathan b. Isaac, writing in Jerusalem in ca. 1050, 
mentions ‘the lesson ol Master Abu’l-Faraj b. Asad’, who is none other 
than Yeshu'a b. Judah In November 1064, Avonb. Sedaqa mentions him, 
implying that the Gaon Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon sent a letter to 
Nehorai b. Nissim via Abu’l-Faraj b. Asad (that is, he included his letter in 
a package of letters sent by Abu’l-Faraj to Fustat). This is apparently 
evidence of the ties between the Gaon and the man who was then un¬ 
questionably the most important figure among the Karaites ofjersualem. 
In August 1065, in another letter from Jerusalem, Avon again mentions 
the letters of Abu’l-Faraj and it seems that here, too, Yeshu'a b. Judah is 
meant. Abu’l-Faraj happens to be in Tyre, accompanied by the sabi (a 
youth or clerk) Asher (or perhaps one should read: Asad, with a ‘left-hand’ 
sin, often replacing a samekh; if this is so, perhaps he is referring to the son 
of Yeshu'a, probably called Asad, after his grandfather). From what has 
been said until now, it is clear that Yeshu'a was a contemporary ofTobiah 
b. Moses and apparently outlived him. 

We also have to mention Abu’l-Hasan ‘All b. Sulayman, who lived in 
Jerusalem towards the end of the century. He introduced into his treatises 
parts of the works of Karaite writers who had preceded him. He wrote an 
abridged version of the Egron of Abu Sulayman David b. Abraham al-Fasi, 
on the basis of an earlier compendium by Levi b. Yefet ha-Levi. He also 
wrote a commentary on the Pentateuch, which is merely an adaptation 
based on the abridged version of the commentary of Joseph ibn Noah, a 
compendium written by Abu’l-Faraj Harun, in which we fmd extracts of 
the commentaries of the nasi David b. Boaz. Remnants of his commentary 
to the book of Psalms have been preserved, which he compiled from the 
commentaries of the nasi David b. Boaz and Abu’l-Tayyib al-TinnlsT (a 

edited TS Box K 17, f. 6, a fragment in Tobiah’s handwriting, dealing with Karaite prayer 

customs (during persecution?). 


819 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


man of Tinnls in Egypt). Another contemporary who lived in Jerusalem 
until close to the Crusaders’ conquest was Sahl b. Fadl al-Tustari, who is 
Yashar b. Hesed b. Yashar b. Hesed, the great-grandson of Hesed al- 
Tustari, Abraham’s brother. We have seen that his stay in Jerusalem 
during the nineties of the century is confirmed by Abu Bakr ibn al-‘Arab!, 
the Spanish Arab writer. Sahl b. Fadl wrote a commentary to the Penta¬ 
teuch and also halakhic and philosophical treatises. Abu Sa‘d, a youth who 
was said to be ‘the son of the Tustari’s wife’, apparently Sahl’s wife, was 
one of the Karaite Jerusalemites taken captive by the Crusaders, of whom I 
shall speak in due course. 24 


The Samaritans 

[941] There is no doubt that considering their assumed share of the 
population of Palestine during this period, the Samaritans are worthy of a 
chapter of their own. Unfortunately the sources on them are few and far 
between, and the history of the Samaritan population is almost unknown. 
In the Samaritan chronicles themselves, very little has been preserved 
concerning the period under discussion, apart from lists of high priests, 
which are very inexact and which contribute nothing to the annals of this 
community. According to a Samaritan chronicle, the high priest at the 

24 SccHarkavy, ZAW, 1(1881). 158, who notes that Abraham ibn Ezra mentions Yeshu'a b. 
Judah frequently in his Bible commentary. See Ibn al-HTtl, 434; Abraham b. Da’ud, S. 
ha-qabbala, 69; Poznanski, JQR, 19(1906/7), 65ff; MS Leiden Or 4779 is a collection of 
Karaite writings, where Yeshu'a’s book on incest regulations is included, and also: ‘The 
responsa of fundamental law of R. Yeshu'a ha-melammed , of blessed memory, on re¬ 
strictions concerning incest. ’ The book on incest regulations was edited by I. Markon, Das 
Buck von den verbotenen Verwandschaftsgmden (St Petersburg 1908); cf. Mann, Texts. II, 39. 
A comprehensive study ofYeshCfa b. Judah's works and thought: M. Schreiner, Studien 
iiber Jeschu'a ben Jeliuda (Berlin 1900); see a chapter on him: Husik, History of Mediaeval 
Jewish Philosophy, 55-58, based mainly on the aforementioned work of Schreiner; also 
Guttmann, ha-Filosdfya , 77-80. Nathan b, Isaac: 297, line 8. Avon b. Sedaqa: 500, a, line 
24; 501, b, lines 16-17. See further on Yeshu‘a b. Judah: Ankori, Karaites in Byzantium, 
according to the Index, especially pp. 81f, on the rikkiiv. On the preservation of the 
commentary to the Pentateuch of Yeshu‘a b. Judah in a Samaritan commentary see: 
Loewenstamm, Tarbiz, 41:183, 1971/2; ibid., 187, she mentions the Samaritan Abu Sa‘id 
(the twelfth century), who called YeshiVa 'the greatest of the Karaite commentators’; on 
the matter of Tobiah b. Moses and Jacob b. Simon, one finds there the usual error, that 
they were allegedly pupils of Yeshu'a b. Judah, whereas in fact they were his contempor¬ 
aries. On ‘Ali b. Sulayman see Mann, Texts, II, 41, and see Skoss’ introduction to his 
edition of the commentary to Gen. of the aforementioned, and the account of his life: 
Tarbiz. 2(1930/31), 510-513, where he proves that ‘Ali was active from 1072-1103. On 
Yashar b. Hesed al-Tustari, the Karaite writer, see: Poznanski, JQR, 19(1906/7), 70ff; 
Mann. Texts, II, 39f; Gil, ha-Tustarim, 63ff; there I still hesitated whether to identify him 
with the Tustari who was met by Ibn al-‘Arabi, but this now seems to be almost certain; 
see the text of Yashar in MS Firkovitch II, No. 3950, in Mann, ibid., 100’ ‘Sahl b. al-Fadl b. 
Sahl al-T ustari concluded the copying of this his treatise in Muharram of the year 489', i.e. 
January AD 1095; the contents of the fragment imply that it was written in Jerusalem, at 
the very time Ibn al-‘Arabi was staying there. 


820 



THE SAMARITANS [SEC. 941] 


time of the Muslim conquest was Nethanel (when ‘the Ishmaelites came 
and took over the land of the Philistines’). The priest who succeeded him 
was ‘Eleazar, in whose day . . . Abu Bakr died’, which is an indication of 
the reliability of this chronicle, for Abu Bakr died a short time after the 
beginning of the Muslim invasion. According to Baladhuri, whom I have 
already quoted, particularly heavy taxes were imposed on the Samaritans, 
from the time of Yazid b. Mu’awiya onward. In Urdunn (that is, the 
region of northern Samaria), they had to pay a poll-tax of two dinars per 
male, apart from the land tax ( khardj ), whereas in Filastln (probably 
referring to the neighbourhood of Shechem), a poll-tax of five dinars was 
collected from every Samaritan male. Ya‘qubi, who wrote during the 
latter half of the ninth century, notes that Yavne was a locality whose 
inhabitants were Samaritans. He notes that in Ramla the dhimmls were 
Samaritans, and as has already been stated above, it is clear that there is 
some distortion in this version; however it does imply that there was 
indeed a Samaritan population in Ramla. Ibn Hawqal, who wrote in the 
mid-tenth century, mentions a Samaritan population in Ramla amounting 
to some 500 tax-payers; that is to say, Ramla had a Samaritan population 
of some 2,000 to 3,000 souls. The Samaritan centre, however, was obvi¬ 
ously Nabulus, which is Shechem; ‘the people of Palestine claim that every 
Samaritan in the world hails from there’, says Ibn Hawkal. 

A very close relationship seems to have developed between the Sam¬ 
aritans and the Muslims, and the process whereby the Samaritans lent 
themselves to the influence of Muslim culture was swifter than that of the 
rest of the population. To a certain extent, evidence of their influence can 
be seen in Islamic tradition. The Koran mentions the Samaritans in the 
sura - t.h. (xx:90-97), noting the fear of defilement as one of their marked 
characteristics. They had taken part in the episode of the golden calf, and 
were therefore punished by constantly having to say ‘do not touch me’ (la 
misdsa). Ibn al-Jawzi, towards the end of the twelfth century, mentions 
that the Samaritans who were left in Palestine say this ‘until today’. A 
tradition in the name of the Prophet, ascribed to Ka‘b al-Ahbar says: ‘The 
place most beloved by God is al-Sham; the most beloved by God in 
al-Sham is Palestine ( al-Quds ; here meaning Palestine); and the most 
beloved by God in Palestine is the Mount Gerizim’ (jabal Nabulus, the 
mountain of Shechem). According to al-Dimashql (writing in ca. 1300) 
‘some say that if a Muslim and a Jew and a Samaritan and a Christian meet 
on the road, the Samaritan will join the Muslim’. The Muslim writers 
mention that the Samaritans are divided into two sects, the Dositheans 
( Dustdniyya ) and the Kushanis, evidently information which they found in 
pre-Islamic sources. The name Kushams can only be found in Arab 
writers; it seems to be a transformation of the Hebrew Kutim. According 


821 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


to the Samaritan chronicle of Abu’l-Fath, it seems that there were still 
synagogues of the Dositheans in the ninth century. One should bear in 
mind that the name Dositheus corresponds to the Hebrew name Nethanel, 
which was the name of several of their high priests. 

Mas'udi, as well as other Muslim writers, mention the Mount Gerizim, 
which is the sacred mountain of the Samaritans, and we know that the 
Samaritans called it tur berik (distorted in some versions). Mas‘udi also 
notes their custom of blowing on silver shofars in their prayers. 

Birum informs us that in his time (the first half of the eleventh century) 
the Samaritans were called lamisasiyya, which was based on the version of 
‘do not touch me’, la ntisasa of the Koran. According to him, their religion 
was a mixture ofjudaism and the Persian religion. Maqrizi has a passage 
which explains that the Samaritans are not really related to the Children of 
Israel and that their origin is in fact Persian. 

As I have already stated, the Samaritans were subjected to terrible 
persecution in the days of the Abbasids, according to the chronicle of 
Abu’l-Fath, which contains a general survey of their history in that period. 
It states the following details: many were forced to leave their homes, 
some converting to Islam. It was said that during al-Amin’s day, their 
synagogues were burnt down in Zayta, in (Kafr) Salim (evidently Kafr 
Salam), and in Arsuf. The governor of Shechem, Masrur ibn Abi ‘Amir, 
sided with the Samaritans, and the Muslims executed him as a result, in 
ca. 815. In 818, al-Ma’mun sent Khalid ibn Yazld to fight the rebels in 
Palestine, and after him ‘Abdallah ibn Tahir, in 822. The latter came to 
Palestine heading a large army, and defended the Samaritans against the 
rebels. When he went on his way and moved to Egypt, however, the 
Samaritans were left without anyone to defend them, and the leader of the 
rebels, Ibn Firasa, tried by force to get them to convert to Islam. Many 
then went into exile in order to evade persecution. After the insurgents 
assassinated the governor ofjericho, the caliph himself came to Palestine. 
The caliph’s brother Ibrahim (?) then conquered Bet Guvrin and caught 
the leader of the rebels. After the suppression of the rebellion, however, 
there followed a period of great hardship for the Samaritans because of the 
heavy taxes which the governor Abu’l-Jarud imposed on them. In al- 
Mu'tasim’s time (833-842), the unbelievers (that is, the rebels) again took 
control of Shechem, setting fire to the synagogues of the Samaritans and 
the Dositheans. The two commanders sent by the caliph, Salih and Ja'far, 
overcame the insurgents in the Valley of Ja’ib (?), and once again, the 
Samaritans were secure, except for the heavy burden of taxes. Pinhas b. 
Nethanel and Dartha (?) then restored the synagogue in Shechem. As I 
have already mentioned, Shechem was taken by the rebels of Tamim Abu 
Harb and the population fled. The high priest was wounded on the way to 


822 



THE SAMARITANS [SEC, 941] 

Hebron and died of his wounds. At the same time, the division between 
the Samaritans and the Dositheans became very acute. After the suppres¬ 
sion of the uprising of Abu Harb (842), the Samaritans returned to their 
homes. In the days of al-Mutawakkil (847-861) the Samaritans again 
suffered severe persecution; the tomb of Nethanel, the high priest, was 
destroyed and the Samaritans had to abide by dress regulations imposed 
by Islam. Ja‘far (evidently the governor of the area) tried to prohibit 
Samaritan rituals altogether, but Joseph ibn DasI, the governor of Pal¬ 
estine, limited this to the Dositheans only, exempting the rest of the 
Samaritans. The Ikhshid Ibn Tughj also tyrannised the Samaritans 
harshly. 

An important detail concerning the background to the difficult con¬ 
ditions under which the Samaritans laboured in the ninth century, as 
described by Abu’l-Fath, is added by BaladhurT. According to him, Harun 
al-Rashld (786-809) turned Samaritan lands into a caliph’s estate. It is not 
clear from his text whether this meant that they were completely deprived 
of their property, or whether the caliph merely appropriated their land 
taxes ( kharaj ). Evidently the latter is correct, for if he was referring to the 
confiscation of land, we should have found some indication of this in 
Abu’l-Fath, when he is markedly complaining about the heavy taxes, 
which was certainly true of the situation. The caliph needed large sums of 
money and his appointees undoubtedly laid their heavy hands on the 
Samaritans, being a rural population whose taxes went straight into the 
caliph’s treasury from then on. According to Baladhurf, who lived close to 
that time (for he wrote towards the end of the ninth century), the Sam¬ 
aritans’ complaints bore fruit and al-Mutawakkil eased the burden of taxes 
on them; at any rate, he reduced the poll-tax from five to three dinars, 
mainly as a result of the complaints of the Samaritans who lived in Bet 
Mama (the exact place is not identified). 

The Samaritan chronicles tell us that Kafur was favourably inclined 
towards the Samaritans. They also tell of a certain Abu ‘Abdallah (prob¬ 
ably his name, not ‘Abdallah) of the same period, who came from a city 
called Qnt (?), and who dealt very fairly with them. There was a man in his 
service ‘from the house of Ephraim’, that is, a Samaritan, whose name was 
ha-Taqwi b. Isaac, whom his Samaritan contemporaries called ‘the sa¬ 
viour’. It is not unlikely that they are describing here the rule of the 
Qarmatis in Palestine, while Abu ‘Abdallah is perhaps Abu ‘Abdallah 
Muhammad b. Ahmad ibn al-NabulusI, a retainer of the Qarmatis and an 
enemy of the Fatimids (mentioned in sec. 555). This Abu ‘Abdallah 
afterwards moved ‘to the city of Pasun [or Pastun, i.e. Filastin] which is 
Ramla’ - which is also consistent with what we know about Ibn 


823 



KARAITES AND SAMARITANS 


al-Nabulusi. This is all very unclear, however, and any interpretation 
would be based merely on assumptions. The chronicles also say that the 
base of this al-Taqwi was Sepphoris, and they also mention his son, 
Rawh. 

Musabbihi, who served in the Fatimid court, tells in his chronicle of an 
incident in Ramla in the spring of 1024, that is, shortly after its conquest by 
al-Dizbiri, between a certain Abu Sa‘d, who was the official in charge of 
the Fatimid army’s administration, and a Samaritan named Sayf, who had 
received an official order (sijill) from the caliph, reprimanding Abu Sa‘d 
(the reason is not explained). After Abu Sa‘d refused to listen to the 
Samaritan’s complaints, despite his efforts to convince him, the Samaritan 
stabbed him with a knife while they were arguing in one of the streets of 
Ramla. The Samaritan fled, taking Abu Sa‘d’s horse with him. He was 
caught, and al-Dizbiri had him imprisoned and the details of the incident 
were passed on to the caliph, who ordered the Samaritan to be executed, 
and this was done. We also know of a Samaritan who was in the service of 
the Fatimid authorities, perhaps as a tax collector, w'hom ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. 
Ezekiel mentions in a letter written in connection with taxes on his shop, 
in which he describes the bribing of‘the Samaritan’. 

The sources do not tell us anything about links between the Jewish and 
the Samaritan populations, and we get the impression that there was no 
contact between them - unlike the continuous co-existence marked by 
rifts and quarrels that was maintained between the Rabbanites and the 
Karaites. Apparently, the attitude of the Muslim rulers towards the Sa¬ 
maritans was also ambivalent, and they certainly had doubts as to their 
genuinely being what was called ahl al-kitab (people of the book). This 
attitude was probably influenced by the Jews and their claim that the 
Samaritans were not genuine Children of Israel but Persians by origin, and 
we find indications of this in Muslim literature, as we have seen. It is 
possible that the authorities used this as a pretext for, and possibly also the 
background to, the persecution referred to in Abu’I-Fath’s chronicle, in 
which the main target was probably the Dositheans, a sect of which there 
are no remnants. Apparently, the Crusaders’ conquest did not displace the 
Samaritans, but we have no information about what happened to them 
during the Crusaders’ rule. However, the Samaritan chronicle written in 
1149, the TolTda, is in itself evidence of their survival. This chronicle also 
speaks of Samaritans in Gaza, all of them belonging to the tribe of 
Benjamin, except for one person who stemmed from the tribe of 
Ephraim. Mas‘udi already noted the fact of the Samaritans’ dispersal 
throughout Palestine, apart from their centres in Samaria and Shechem. 
He mentions ‘Ard in particular, and he apparently means the present-day 


824 



THE SAMARITANS [SEC. 941] 


‘Ara. (Mas‘udi notes that he writes these things in AH 332, which began in 
September AD 943. ) 25 

25 See the anonymous chronicle: Adler et Seligsohn, REJ, 45(1902). 241; Baladhuri, Futiih, 
158; Ya'qiibl, Buldan, 328, 329; Ibn Hawqal, 172; Ibn al-jawzl, Zad, V, 319; Ka‘b 
al-Ahbar: Ibn ‘Asakir, I, 110; al-Dimashql, 201. The division into sects: Baladhuri, ibid.-, 
Mas‘udi, Muriij, I, 114f; Tatibili, 213; Abu’l-Fida’, Mukhtasar, I, 88 (according to him, the 
difference between the two was that the Dositheans do not accept the idea of the world to 
come and of reward and penance, unlike the kushduiyya); see Maqrizi, Khitat, III, 372ff, 
who has a history of the Samaritans starting from the Biblical period, and what he copied 
from Mas‘udl and BIrunT; see BirunI, 21; ShahrastanI, 170f. Fragments from the Arabic 
sources in an English translation: Isser, The Dositheans, 69-73. See the chronicle of 
Abu’l-Fath (Vilmar), pp. lxxx ff; there is a grain of truth in this chronicle but much of it is 
incorrect. The matter of taxes: Baladhuri, ibid.; cf. Lammens, Yaztd , 391; Yaqut, Buldan, 
I, 781: al-Mutawakkil decreased the tax from ten dinars to three; ha-Taqwi: see the 
chronicle edited by Neubauer (the To/fda), 24; Adler et Seligsohn, ibid. , 253, cf. Mann, 
/e«'s, I, 18f, n. 2. The matter of Sayf the Samaritan: Musabbihi, 94. ‘Eli ha-Kohen: 446, 
line 31. Samaritans in Gaza: in Neubauer, ibid., 26. 


825 



10 


The Crusaders’ conquest and 

THE FATE OF PALESTINIAN JEWRY 

W 


[942] In 1099, the curtain fell on the period of Muslim rule in Palestine, 
which had lasted for 465 years. For the Jewish population, the Crusaders’ 
conquest was a mortal blow; it was almost completely uprooted and this 
marked the end of an uninterrupted history of a continuous Israelite and 
Jewish entity in Palestine for a period of some hundred generations, 
starting from Joshua bin Nun. For other sectors of the population as well, 
it was also a revolutionary change in every sense of the word. A new 
society arose, the kingdom of the Crusaders, which was altogether differ¬ 
ent from what Palestine had known hitherto. 

The major setting for the circumstances which enabled the Crusaders to 
make headway in this part of the world is to be sought in the weakness of 
the Muslim world and its schisms. We have seen some of the facts above, 
in connection with the Turcomans’ conquest. One must add something 
about the conditions in Egypt, the country which ruled Palestine at the 
time of the Crusaders’ invasion. After the death of al-Mustansir in 1094, 
Egypt was torn by the war between his two sons, al-Musta‘h and Nizar. 
Al-Musta‘lT was declared the successor to the throne, while Nizar aimed at 
replacing him. He fled to Alexandria, where Nasir al-Dawla Aftakin, the 
governor of the city and leader of his faction, was in control. The latter’s 
intention was to succeed to the post of al-Afdal, son of Badr al-Jamall, and 
become wazlr and chief commander of the army. The people of Alex¬ 
andria stood behind him and Nizar. Al-Afdal, however, hastened to 
besiege Alexandria, with little success at first, but after tightening the siege 
by organising additional forces, he managed to conquer the city. Nasir 
al-Dawla was executed, and Nizar was also caught and condemned to 
death. Together with a group of his supporters, he was put into a wall 
which was then sealed and built over. To this civil war which enfeebled 
Egypt’s power, was added a terrible plague in 1097, which cost the lives of 


826 



THE CRUSADERS’ CONQUEST [SECS. 942-950] 

an enormous number of people. Nevertheless, al-Afdal succeeded in 
gathering together an army which took Palestine from the Saljuqs, as we 
have seen. On 26 August 1098, Jerusalem was once more under the control 
of the Fatimids - for a period of less than a year before the Crusaders took 
it. 1 

[943] In the same year, as we know, the Crusaders took Antioch. From 
there, they launched an advance southward, along the coast, via Beirut, 
Sidon (Sagitta in the Latin sources), Tyre, Acre, Haifa and Caesarea. They 
avoided the fortified towns in the coastal area, and only Caesarea was 
taken at this stage, where they celebrated Pentecost in 1099. Immediately 
afterwards, the Crusaders entered Ramla, which they found empty of its 
inhabitants, who had all fled. They installed a bishop there, and gave the 
lands of the area to the Christians. From a description of the events, it 
seems clear that the Crusaders were impatient to get to Jerusalem. Accord¬ 
ing to Ibn al-Athir, they tried to attack Acre but were driven back, and 
gave up the attempt for the time being. Jerusalem came under siege at the 
beginning of June. Ibn al-Athir tells that the Crusaders put up two towers 
for the siege, one to the south in the direction of Mount Zion, which the 
Muslims succeeded in setting on fire and killing the soldiers who manned 
it. According to Ibn al-Qalanisi, the Crusaders conquered the city by 
trickery. They attacked during the day but withdrew towards evening, 
announcing loudly that they intended to return on the morrow to launch 
another attack. The defenders then scattered to rest for the night, but on 
that same night, the Crusaders attacked again when the wall was unde¬ 
fended. This time they succeeded in penetrating the city. The siege lasted 
for some six weeks and the city was conquered on Friday, 23 Sha'ban AH 
492 (15 July AD 1099). Apparently, most of the Crusader forces entered 
the city in the afternoon of that same day. Their major breakthrough was 
in the northern part of the city, in the neighbourhood of bab al-asbat. 

All the sources, Muslim, Christian and Jewish, agree on the unpre¬ 
cedented amount of bloodshed that accompanied the conquest of the city. 
The principal Christian sources on this subject are the texts of Balderic, 
bishop of Dol (Baudry de Bourgueil), who wrote a treatise entitled The 
History of Jerusalem at the beginning of the twelfth century, that is quite 
near the time these events occurred, and Albert of Aachen, in his treatise 
on the conquest of Jerusalem. According to Balderic, most of the inhabi¬ 
tants of Jerusalem escaped to the area of the Temple Mount (templum 
Salomonis). The Christians violated their promise to the inhabitants that 
they would be left alive, and slaughtered some 20,000 to 30,000 people, a 
number which may be an exaggeration, although the Muslim sources 

1 The civil war: Ibn al-Qalanisi, 128f; Ibn al-Athir, Kamil, X, 238; Ibn Taghri BardI, under 
the year 487; Maqrizi, Khitat, II, 164f (which also discusses the plague), 276f. 


827 



THE CRUSADERS' CONQUEST AND THE FATE OF PALESTINIAN JEWRY 


speak of even 70,000. One must take into account that Jerusalem, which 
normally had a much smaller population, was then evidently full of 
refugees who had fled from other places. Apparently, the Fatimid army 
stationed in the city left unharmed, after their commander, Iftikhar al- 
Dawla, agreed to surrender, on condition that he and his forces would be 
permitted to leave the city without arms and without food. They actually 
did leave for Ascalon, and were accompanied by some of Jerusalem’s 
inhabitants who managed to leave. Abu Bakr ibn al-‘ArabI, a contempo¬ 
rary who remained in Jerusalem for a few years, until 1095, and who 
evidently also had reliable information on the conquest, notes that the 
Muslims all fled to the mihrdb Da’iid, obviously meaning the Temple 
Mount. According to him, they all remained alive and unharmed, on the 
condition that they surrender and hand over the citadel. Apparently Ibn 
al-Athxr also copied these details from him. Later Arab sources, beginning 
with Ibn al-jawzl, as mentioned, speak of the slaughter of 70,000 people 
and the plunder of the mosques on the Temple Mount. From the Dome of 
the Rock, some 40 or more silver lamps were robbed, each of which 
weighed 3,600 dirhams (apparently ca. ten kilograms), a lighting fixture 
made of silver which weighed 40 rath shatm (ca. 67 kilograms, evidently), 
gold lamps, and innumerable pieces of clothing, fabrics and precious 
objects. In addition, according to the Muslim sources, they destroyed the 
Cave of the Machpelah. The Arab sources stress in particular the killing of 
Abu’l-Qasim MakkI b. ‘Abd al-Salam al-MaqdisT al-Rumayli, the Muslim 
writer mentioned above. As to the fate of the Jews, the version in most of 
the Muslim sources is that the Jews were gathered together in the syn¬ 
agogue, which was then set on fire. The Christian sources differ; they say 
that most of the Jews were taken captive, which is also borne out in the 
Geniza documents to be discussed below. According to Balderic, thejews 
were forced to participate in clearing away the corpses, together with the 
local Christians (only the latter were paid for their labours). Afterwards 
the captives were sold on Tancred’s orders, at the rate of thirty per aureus 
(dinar). A great many were taken by sea to southern Italy (Apulia); some 
were drowned in the sea and others were beheaded. 

Both a Christian and a Muslim source tell of the plague which broke out 
immediately after the conquest. According to the Christian source, this 
was caused by ‘the Barbarians’, who poisoned the wells and other water 
sources. There are also those who say, according to the Christian source, 
that the plague broke out because of the many corpses that remained 
unburied. 2 

[944] As to Flebron, we have seen that according to the Arab sources, it 

2 On the matter of the conquest ofjerusalem see the detailed description in Ibn al-Qalanisi, 
137; Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil , X, 283f; Ibn Taghri BardI, V, 150; Ibn Khallikan, I, 161 f (the 


828 



THE CRUSADERS' CONQUEST [SECS. 942-950] 


was taken at about the same time as Jerusalem, for they mentioned the 
destruction in the Cave of Machpelah. Albert of Aachen, however, says 
that Hebron was conquered in the summer of the following year, that is 
1100, by Godfrey of Bouillon. The Crusaders turned the synagogue in 
Hebron into a church, as described by the Hebronite monk in his story 
quoted above (sec. 315) in the discussion on Hebron, which is also con¬ 
firmed by Benjamin of Tudela, who notes that the church in Hebron, 
which was called ‘the church of St Abraham’ when he visited there ( ca. 
1170), had been a synagogue during the period of Muslim rule. 

Haifa was taken two years later, in August 1100 or June 1101, according 
to Muslim sources which contradict one another. Albert of Aachen does 
not mention the date in a clear manner either. From what he says, it 
appears that it was mainly thejewish inhabitants of the city who defended 
the fortress of Haifa. In his rather strange Latin style, he mentions that 
there was ajewish population in Haifa, and that they fought bravely on the 
walls of the city. He explains that thejews there were protected people of 
the Muslims (the Fatimids). They fought side by side with units of the 
Fatimid army, striking back at Tancred’s army from above the walls of the 
citadel (. .. Judaei cives commixtis Sarracenorum turmis) until the Crusaders 
overcame them and they were forced to abandon the walls. The Muslims 
and thejews then managed to escape from the fortress with their lives, 
while the rest of the population fled the city en masse. Whoever remained 
was slaughtered, and huge quantities of spoils were taken. According to 
the Muslim sources, the Crusaders also entered Arsuf at the same time, 
after granting an aman (a letter of security). 3 

article on Abu’l-Qasim Ahmad al-Musta‘H b. al-Mustansir); Sibt ibn al-JawzT, Mir’dh , MS 
Leiden Or 88, fols. 56a—57b; Yaqut, Buldan , II, 824; IV, 599 (ibid, on the breakthrough in 
the north of the city); Ibn al-jawzl, Muntazam, IX, 108; Ibn Kathlr, Bidaya, XII, 106; 
DhahabI, ‘Ibar, III, 332; Baldricus Dolensis, 102; Albert of Aachen (Albericus), 482f, and 
see version G of Balderic (MS Paris 5513), 103; Ibn al-‘ArabI, Ahkam, 1586; on the 
surrender of Iftikhar al-Dawla see also: Petri Tudebodi, Historia, 109f. On the matter of the 
date, there are contradictions in the Muslim sources, but as all are agreed that it was on a 
Friday, it is dear that 15 July is intended. Only one source, Gilo of Paris, lists thejews 
among the defenders ofjerusalem against the Crusaders, which is not confirmed in any of 
the Muslim sources, nor in the Jewish sources. In Tudebotus abbreviatus in the Gesta 
Francorutn, 161, it states that only Muslims (Sarraceni) were forced to clear away the 
corpses. On the price of the captives, see below what it says in the Geniza sources. On the 
plague, see Annalista Saxo, 733; Maqrizi, Khitat , II, 165; according to him the plague 
spread to Egypt as well and a great many people in Fustat succumbed, which is borne out 
by a letter in the Geniza, quoted below. A description of the First Crusade and the conquest 
ofjerusalem can be read in any book dealing with the history of the Crusades; cf. Dinur, 
Zion (ha-me’assef), 2(1926/7), 40-54; Grousset, I, 157-163; Runciman, I, 279ff; Prawer, 
Tolcdot, I, I34ff; idem, Ha-salvdnim, 31; and Goitein’s articles: Zion, 17:129 \9S2;JJS, 3:162, 
1952; Yerushalayint, 1955:54; Eretz-Israel, 4:147, 1955/6; see these articles, together with a 
general introduction and various additions: idem, Ha-yishuv, 229—305. 

3 Hebron: Albert of Aachen (see previous note), 523; Benjamin of Tudela (Adler), 26f; cf. 
Dinur, Zion (ha-me’assef), 2(1925/6) 54ff; Vincent, Hebron , 163f, n. 5, who quotes a source 


829 



THE CRUSADERS’ CONQUEST AND THE FATE OF PALESTINIAN JEWRY 


[945] From here onward, I shall be referring to data contained in the 
Geniza documents belonging to the period of the Crusaders’ dominion 
over Palestine. These documents can naturally serve as a source of infor¬ 
mation, particularly with regard to the fate of the Jewish population, 
although here and there they contain details on the general events of the 
time, and it is always interesting to compare them with the information 
we have gathered from Christian and Muslim sources. 

Roughly about the same time that the news of the fall ofjerusalem to the 
Crusaders reached Fustat, evidence is to be found in two fragments of 
drafts of a letter intended for the Ascalon congregation, on behalf of the 
three congregations - the two congregations of Fustat, the ‘Palestinian’ 
and the ‘Babylonian’ as well as the congregation ot al-Qahira. The writer 
of the drafts is the cantor and scribe Hillel b. ‘Eli, who can be recognised by 
his handwriting. From what has been preserved from the drafts, we read 
about an emergency assembly held by the Jews of Fustat and al-Qahira at 

which says that in 1100 assistance is already being requested for the castrum Sancti Abrahae, 
‘the citadel of St Abraham’. Haifa: Albert of Aachen, 521 fF; he describes the Jews of Haifa as 
citizens (ewes) who lived in the city by favour of and with the agreement of the King of 
Babylonia (regis Babyloniae), in exchange for the payment of taxes - this was in fact the 
status of every Jew of the Muslim world (Babylonia there meant Egypt), and nothing out 
of the ordinary. See DhahabI, ‘Ibar, III, 338: Haifa was conquered in AH 494 (AD 1101) 
together with Arsuf; Ibn Khallikan, I, 179: in Shawwal AH 493 (August AD 1100); and 
similarly Ibn Zafir (print), 83 ( = MS 75a); whereas MaqrizI, Itti'dz, III, 261: the end of 
Rajab AH 494, that is, the beginning ofjune AD 1101; cf. Prawer, Toledo!, I, 169f;inn. 15, 
the reference to Albert of Aachen has to be corrected: it should read vol. IV, also in EP, in 
the article Hayfa (by the editor) where there is also an incorrect interpretation of Albert of 
Aachen’s passage about the status of the Jews, as if he were speaking of some special grant 
given them by the caliph, which is not said there; nor does it refer to any ‘special privilege’ 
(as assumed by Prawer, Latin Kingdom, 236). Albert writes: ‘cives ex generejudaeorum qui 
hanc inhabitabant dono et consensu regis Babyloniae in redditione tributorum’, ‘citizens of 
the Jewish nation, who lived there by the favour and with the agreement of the King of 
Babylonia [as they called the ruler of Egypt at the time], in exchange for the payment of 
taxes’. Common sense tells us that this is merely Albert’s style and that all he wished to say 
was that the Jews of Haifa were ahl al-dhimtna, i.e, protected people. It is worth adding 
some references to Arab sources: Ibn al-Shaddad (MS), 107a: Bet Shean was conquered at 
the same time asjerusalem. The conquest of Caesarea: Ibn Khallikan, ibid.: in AH 494, that 
is AD 1101. Acre: DhahabI, 'Ibar, III. 345: in AH 497, i.e. AD 1104 (which began on 5 
October 1103); and also in: Ibn Khallikan, V, 300; Ibn Taghrl BardI, V, 170; on p. 188 he 
says that Acre was attacked by Baldwin (Baghdawln) on land, and from the sea by more 
than ninety ships. He laid a siege on the city from every side. The governor, Zahr al-Dawla 
al-Juyushl, asked for a pact tor himself and the Muslims, but the Crusaders refused, for 
they knew that no one would come to their aid from Egypt; the city was then taken ‘by the 
sword’, in Ramadan AH 497 (June AD 1104). Baniyas: Ibn Taghrl BardI, V, 170: in AH 
502, which began on 11 August AD 1108; similarly in Ibn Khallikan, V, 300; there is no 
information on the situation in Baniyas from this date onward, and according to what I 
wrote above in sec. 328, it seems to have changed hands a number of times before the 
Crusaders finally took it in 1129. As to Tyre, the accepted date is Tuesday, 23Jumada I AH 
518, 8 July AD 1124, see: Ibn al-Athlr, Kamil X, 621 f; Ibn Khallikan, V, 300; according to 
the surrender agreement, the population was permitted to leave the city with whatever 
they could carry, and indeed whoever was capable of it, left. 


830 



THE CRUSADERS’ CONQUEST [SECS. 942-950] 

the home of Mevorakh b. Saadia, the Nagid. Mevorakh himself adopted 
mourning customs and when the people assembled there, they found him 
‘in tom clothes, sitting on the ground, weeping over that’ (which had 
happened). The main subject dealt with at that meeting was the ransoming 
of the scrolls of the Torah and the captives (the Torah came before the 
captives!). A sum of 123 dinars was collected on the spot for this purpose 
and the money w'as sent with an emissary to Ascalon. The name of the 
emissary was Mansur. At the time the drafts were written, they did not 
know the name of his father, only his by-name, ‘b. al-Mu‘allima’ (the 
woman teacher). 4 

[946] We also find details relating to the period of the Crusaders’ 
conquest in a letter written by a Maghribi merchant to his cousin. After 
years of trading and eventually losing his fortune, the writer’s only 
remaining ambition was to go on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem. En route, he 
first stopped in Alexandria, where he remained for some time. In the 
meantime, winter had set in, accompanied by storms at sea, while in 
Palestine, wars were raging and the country was completely disrupted by 
the armies. All roads leading to Jerusalem were hazardous. There were 
also riots in Egypt at the time; Alexandria was besieged time and again and 
partly destroyed in the process. Eventually it was taken by ‘the Sultan’ 
who imposed a regime of justice. In his description, the writer was 
obviously referring to the events which took place after al-Mustansir’s 
death and the war between his two sons, Nizar and al-Musta‘li. The 
benign Sultan was naturally al-Afdal. The writer was now hoping for 
better times, which would enable him to reach his destination, Jerusalem, 
in safety. Indeed, al-Afdal’s army conquered Jerusalem, but only for a 
very limited time (in the autumn of1098, when travelling on the high seas 
was impossible due to storms; in the spring of 1099, the Crusaders were 
already in Palestine). He refers to the invasion of the Crusaders ( al-Ijranj) 
and the conquest ofjerusalem, and to the fact that the Muslim and Jewish 
inhabitants were all killed, except for the few who were taken captive, 
some of whom were still in captivity in various places or had been 
ransomed in the interim. To the writer, these events seemed an ephemeral 
episode and he expresses the hope that the wheels of fortune would soon 
turn and that al-Afdal would shortly, in that same year, take Jerusalem 
from the Crusaders. Then he would go up to the Holy City and afterwards 
return home. In continuation, he mentions the dreadful, drawn-out 
plague which claimed so many victims - as we have already heard. 

Zadok b. Josiah, known to us as the ‘third’ in the Scrolls of Abiathar, 

4 The drafts: 573; Goitein, Mediterranean Society, III, 356, assumed that this Mansur was 
identical to Abu Mansur, to whom the letter (requesting aid): ENA NS 2, f. 17, was 
written; Goitein writes that the letter was sent to kamsat al-mu'allima (‘the synagogue of the 


831 



THE CRUSADERS’ CONQUEST AND THE FATE OF PALESTINIAN JEWRY 


writing to Joseph ha-shojet (‘the judge’) b. Abraham in Fustat, also deals at 
length with the matter of the captives. He speaks of family members who 
are in captivity. In order to deal with the release of members of his family, 
he seems to be in a place we cannot identify, near the area under Crusaders’ 
occupation, while members of his family are in captivity in Antioch. His 
daughter was the only one he managed to redeem, while his son and 
son-in-law were still in captivity. Apparently this son-in-law was a man of 
considerable status and lineage, for he refers to him as ‘his excellency, our 
mighty prince, our son-in-law, the prince of the House of Israel’. 
Although he has evidently arranged the ransom payment for his son, it is 
actually the son-in-law about whom he is most concerned. We do not 
know how members of Zadok’s family were taken captive by the Crusad¬ 
ers, as they lived in Tyre, which was only conquered in 1124. They may 
have been on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem after the Fatimids took it in 1098. 
What is clearly evident from the letter is that the writer had also ap¬ 
proached the Nagid, Mevorakh b. Saadia, about the ransom money and 
that he anticipates his active support in the matter of his family’s redemp¬ 
tion. As Goitein points out, although the writer held an important pos¬ 
ition in the Palestinian yeshiva, the letter itself is highly personal and his 
anxiety for his family overrides his concern for the other captives. Appar¬ 
ently from the same time, there is a letter which some member of the 
Palestinian yeshiva, staying in Tyre, wrote to one of the followers of the 
Nagid in Fustat. The writer wants to come to Fustat, hoping the Nagid 
would provide him with a livelihood. He cannot leave for Fustat himself, 
as he does not want to leave his family in Tyre in such uncertain con¬ 
ditions, referring to ‘the child who was left behind’. Evidently, here too he 
was speaking of a son in captivity. 5 

[947] A letter from a group of Karaite refugees from Jerusalem is of 
particular interest. They are staying in Egypt, evidently Alexandria, and 
the letter is written to the Karaite congregation in Fustat, less than a year 
after the fall of Jerusalem. The letter deals mainly with the ransoming of 
captives. The writers acknowledge the receipt ofa money order- and with 

woman teacher’), but I read it: kanisat al-Mahalla (‘the synagogue in al-Mahalla’), and it was 
sent: ild al-shaykh abi Mansur bm't-mu'allim (to Mr. Abu Mansur, son of the teacher’); 
therefore it seems that these were two different people. 

5 The letter of the Maghribi: 575 . The letter of Zadok b. Josiah: 574 , and see Goitein’s 
assumption, in Eretz-Israel, 4(1956/7), 147 (= Ha-yishuv, 2831), that his son-in-law was 
‘the son of the wife of the Tustari’ mentioned in 577 ; which does not seem to be based on 
sufficient evidence, for this was a child of eight to ten, and see below. Zadok b. Josiah did 
not become av-bet-dm, contrary to what Mann says in Jews, I, 193f, and also what he writes 
there on Nathan b. Abraham who was allegedly the grandson of Nathan av-bet-dm (the 
rival of Solomon b. Judah) and became av-bet-dm after Zadok, is incorrect, as 1 have shown 
above; and also what Goitein writes in his wake on this matter in the aforementioned place. 
The letter from Tyre: 576 , and see the matter of the son in line 10. 


832 



THE CRUSADERS’ CONQUEST [SECS. 942-950] 


the money they received for it they have already redeemed some of the 
captives. The letter also includes a description of the conditions in which 
the ransomed Karaite captives live; they stay in Ascalon for the time being, 
in dire straits, and from day to day, some of them die of hunger. As to the 
captives who are still in the hands of the Crusaders, distressing news is 
arriving about them, telling of cruel executions, and they fear that the 
Crusaders intend to wipe out all the captives. Some of the Karaite refugees 
escaped from captivity, mostly with the help of Abu’l-Fadl Sahl b. Yusha* 
b. Sha‘ya (evidently a Karaite from Ascalon) who had good connections 
with the Sultan (that is: al-Afdal), and due to these connections, he had 
considerable influence in the port of Ascalon, succeeding in freeing many 
of the captives in ways which were only known to him. Among the 
captives still in the hands of the Crusaders is a child of eight to ten years of 
age, named Abu Sa‘d, ‘son of the wife of the Tustari’. This ‘wife of the 
Tustari’ was evidently the widow of the Karaite writer Sahl b. Fadl 
(Yashar b. Hesed) al-Tustari, the great-grandson of Hesed al-Tustari. We 
have seen that this Sahl lived in Jerusalem in the nineties, and we do not 
know the circumstances of his death; perhaps he was killed during the 
Crusaders’ conquest. Nor do we know why the child is called ‘the son of 
the wife of al-Tustari’ and not ‘the son of al-Tustari’, and naturally there 
may be many explanations for this. His captors, the Crusaders, are trying 
to persuade him to convert to Christianity but he refuses and claims that it 
is unheard of for a priest to become a Christian. It appears that they are 
hoping to receive a particularly large sum in ransom money for him, as 
they are aware of his lineage. Some of the captives were taken to Antioch 
(we have seen confirmation of this also in Zadok b. Josiah’s letter). We 
have heard, notes the writer, of no instances of‘the cursed Ashkenaz’ (it is 
not clear which Crusaders were being referred to, nor who were the 
Crusaders who were holding the captives) raping the women in captivity. 
Another important detail that he mentions is the fact that some of the 
Jerusalem Karaites succeeded in leaving Jerusalem together with the gov¬ 
ernor, on the basis of an aman. This corresponds to what I have written 
above concerning Iftikhar al-Dawla, who handed over the Temple Mount 
(mihrab Da’ud) to the Crusaders by a capitulation agreement. Some of the 
ransomed captives moved to Egypt without sufficient means to maintain 
themselves or adequate clothing, and many died on the way from the 
bitter cold and starvation. Many of those who left by sea also died. As to 
the cost of ransoming a captive, although they did not speak of thirty 
captives per dinar as in the Crusader source I quoted above, it does say in 
this letter, that it is fortunate for the captives that the Crusaders did not 
know what was the usual price, which was three Jewish captives for 100 
dinars, and therefore, it implies, the ransom price was much lower than 


833 



THE CRUSADERS’ CONQUEST AND THE FATE OF PALESTINIAN JEWRY 


that. An account of the expenses, up until the writing of the letter, had 
reached 700 dinars, of which 200 was a debt. More money was needed, it 
says in the letter, to ensure the lives of some twenty ransomed captives 
who were left in Ascalon and to move them to Egypt. A special instance 
was that of Abu’l-Khayr Mubarak b. ha-melammed Hiba b. Nisan (Mub¬ 
arak = Mevorakh; Hiba = Nathan; that is, Mevorakh b. Nathan), who 
pledged an oath not to take any public money except that which the 
donors had specifically intended for him personally. In the continuation of 
the letter, there is an appeal that money from pledges and the income from 
the heqdesh foundations be reserved for the rescuing of captives and of 
those redeemed from captivity. The redemption of books is another 
matter: 230 Bibles, 100 quires, 28 Torah scrolls were redeemed; all are 
considered qddesh (= heqdesh) and are being kept in Ascalon, and money 
must be found in order to transfer them to Egypt. There is no doubt that 
this letter is of a purely Karaite nature, as can be seen by its writers, its 
signatories, and its contents. Thus, even in these terrible hours of de¬ 
struction and annihilation which befell the Jews of Palestine, it is obvious 
that the Karaites acted on their own and not together with the Rabbanites. 6 

[948] On the matter of redeeming the books from the Crusaders, it is 
worth noting the Karaite colophon copied by Harkavy in 1875 from a 
Torah scroll kept by a Karaite in Petersburg (received from Firkovitch), in 
which it says that God brought ‘our master Solomon the nasi into grace 
and favour and tender love in the sight of the Master Balduwin who 
reigned after his brother . . . and they returned to us all our holy books, 
among them this Torah scroll... on Friday, the fast of 10 Av, the first day 
of the year 1037 of the destruction of the second [Temple], 1416 Sel. (that 
is, in the summer of AD 1105). It also says there: ‘we assembled in the 
synagogue of our nasi ‘Anan’. Firkovitch claimed (quoted by Harkavy) 

6 The letter of the Karaites: 577 , and see there in the note to a, line 28, remarks about where it 
was being written. As to Abu’l-Fadl Sahl b. Yeshu'a b. Sha‘ya, Goitein, ha-Yishuv, 236, 
assumed that he is identical with Shelah, who married Sitt al-Dallal in Ascalon in January 
1100 (misprinted there as 1110), see 594 . On the matter of Abu Sa‘d, son of the wife of the 
Tustari, cf. Gil, ha-Tustarim, 65. Goitein, JQR, NS 45 (1954/5), 36f, n. 1, already stated his 
opinion that this boy was the son of Yashar b. Hesed (should be: Yashar the great-grandson 
of Hesed), and deduced from this that Yashar, the Karaite writer, lived in Jerusalem until 
the Crusaders’ conquest. As we have seen above, the fact that he lived in Jerusalem has 
additional proof. On the subject of the identity of the ‘Ashkenaz’, see Kedar, Tarbiz , 42 
(1972/3), 407, n. 36; Goitein, Zion, 17 (1952), 133. n. 16 (= Ha-yishuv), 235, n. 17): 
‘probably meaning the Lotharingians’. See the discussion in Goitein, ha- Yishuv, 235, on the 
huge number of books and quires, compared with the inventory lists from the Geniza of 
books which belonged to the synagogues in Fustat in the eleventh and twelfth centuries. 
Baron, SRHJ, IV, 111 f made a comparison between the matter of the ransom payment for 
the books of the Bible and the colophons of Bible manuscripts which were preserved and 
provide evidence that they are from Jerusalem, and correctly concluded that the letter was a 
Karaite one. Not so Prawer, in ha-Salvamm, 268, n. 42, who expresses his feeling that the 
letter is ‘not Karaite but Jewish’ (meaning: Rabbanite, naturally). 


834 



THE CRUSADERS’ CONQUEST [SECS. 942-950] 


that this proves that the Karaites were not affected by the conquest of 
Jerusalem and that even their synagogue injerusalem remained intact. The 
first statement is completely contradicted by the above letter. As to the 
synagogue, we have already seen that there is no information on a Karaite 
synagogue in Jerusalem during this period, hence the synagogue in the 
name of ‘Anan (if this is not one of Firkovitch’ forgeries) was apparently 
the name of the Karaite synagogue in Fustat, or perhaps in another city, 
such as Damascus. The colophon in a commentary to the book of Isaiah 
written by Josiah b. Aaron he-haver of Acre (which I have already men¬ 
tioned above, sec. 301, and which is included in my collection) is also 
evidence of the redemption of books taken as spoils in Jerusalem and 
Palestine. The Latin inscription in this colophon is an indication that the 
book was taken as spoils by the Crusaders, who took the trouble to 
discover its value; only then could it be redeemed by the Jews. Similarly, 
the Keter of Aleppo mentioned above, is said to have been redeemed from 
the spoils of Jerusalem. 7 

[949] Another letter dealing with the captives is from one of the Pal¬ 
estinian refugees, sent from somewhere in the neighbourhood of Tyre or 
Damascus. He escaped to this place and was making every effort to free his 
family from captivity. With singular difficulty, he managed to redeem his 
mother, his brother, and young sister. The letter only provides us with the 
name of the writer’s father, R. Kokhav, who he says died seven years 
earlier. One of his relatives is also mentioned, ‘Petahia b. al-mu‘allim 
Mahasin’, that is, the son of a teacher, who asked the writer to add 
something in his name as well. It is obvious that the writer is a young man, 
for he writes that when his father died, ‘we, the children remained’. One of 
the daughters of the family is still in captivity and they need a large sum of 
money for her redemption. The writer refrains from asking for money 
directly but seems to harbour resentment towards his relatives in Egypt 
who are well-off but who do not seem to care about the terrible distress of 
their relations. He calls Egypt ‘the kingdom you live in’, for apparently 
everyone hoped that it would be the source of their salvation. The refugees 
saw themselves as ‘a posterity in the earth’ which God had left in order to 
‘save your lives by a great deliverance’ (Gen., xlv:7); which again goes to 
show that they considered what had occurred to be a passing episode. 

Abu Sa‘d b. Ghana’im wrote from Ascalon to his brother Abu’l-Baha’ 
in Bilbays, about a woman captive who had been released from captivity. 
Goitein, the first editor of the letter, assumed that it was written after the 

7 See Harkavy, ha-Sefira , 1874/5, 47f; the dating is according to the Karaite calendar, and we 
do not know when their month of A v began in that year. Solomon the Nasi is evidently the 
son of Ezekiel b. Solomon b. David; cf. Mann, Jews, I, 199f, and n. 1 (he copied 1417 Sel. 
instead of 1416). The colophon in the book of Isaiah; 221 . 


835 



THE CRUSADERS’ CONQUEST AND THE FATE OF PALESTINIAN JEWRY 


Crusaders’ conquest of Ascalon (1153), for we know that a remnant of the 
community remained there. His opinion probably stemmed from the 
supposition that there was no possibility of maintaining contact between 
Ascalon and the region seized by the Crusaders, as long as Ascalon was 
under Muslim control. It seems to me that this supposition is not necess¬ 
arily so, however, and we may assume that the letter dates from the 
beginning of the twelfth century. This same Abu Sa‘d writes in his letter 
that he visited Shechem (that is, the region occupied by the Crusaders) 
together with a certain Muslim ( = Meshullam) ibn Abi Sahl, where they 
ransomed the latter’s sister from the Crusaders’ captivity. Muslim still 
owed sixty dinars from this transaction (twice the usual price for ransom¬ 
ing a prisoner). Abu Sa‘d had succumbed to Muslim’s entreaties and stood 
as his guarantor with ‘the Frank’, probably one ofthe Crusader command¬ 
ers with whom he maintained contact. Quite some time has passed since 
then and the Frank is putting pressure on him to pay the money. The 
writer therefore asks his brother to obtain the money from the captive’s 
father, who it is implied also lives in Bilbays. If he has no money, he will 
return the sister (this sounds like bluster), and if necessary, he would even 
get a decision from the judges. The writer cannot obtain the money 
despite all his efforts, for no one is ready to lend it to him, although he has 
offered interest and even his son as deposit (this also seems rather exagger¬ 
ated). It is also worth noting Muslim’s argument that if his sister is free, 
she will be able to recruit some of the ransom money herself. 

A direct appeal to the congregation from a woman captive (evidently 
after she was redeemed) can be seen in a version of a request from a woman 
‘from among the captives of Palestine’. She has just reached Sunbat in 
Egypt, and in her appeal says she has no clothing and that she has a small 
child to care for. She asks for help, and blesses those that would help with 
God’s granting them a double reward, adding: ‘may He not dislodge you 
from your retreat’. Another woman captive whose redemption is being 
dealt with at about the same time is also mentioned in a letter from the 
Jewish leader of Ascalon, Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevorakh to the parnas of 
Fustat, ‘Ula ha-Levi b. Joseph. He promises him that the people of 
Ascalon are looking after the affairs of the woman, ‘may our God unchain 
her fetters and the captives of His nation Israel’. 8 

[950] And so ends the period which began with the suffering attendant 
on the conquest of Palestine by the nomadic tribes which united round the 
vision of Islam. This period brought about an essential change in the status 
of Palestine. Jerusalem became a holy city to the Muslims, while at the 
same time a Jewish community returned to the city, which became the 

8 The refugee's letter: 578 . The letter from Ascalon: 579 , see Goitein, Tarbiz, 31(1961/2), 
287ff ( = ha-Yishuv, 306f). The captive’s appeal: 580 . Ascalon: 588 , margin, top. 


836 



THE CRUSADERS’ CONQUEST [SECS. 942-950] 


centre of the diaspora and the seat of the yeshiva Ge’on Ya'aqov. The 
Christians, the former rulers of Palestine, became dhimmis lacking politi¬ 
cal rights, like thejews. To the two ancient components of the population 
in Palestine, another was added: the Muslims - their tribes, armies, 
theologians and scholars, and their mosques. At the end of this period, 
Islam could no longer hold Palestine, as a result of the internal division and 
unceasing warfare which it experienced, and it slipped out of its hands. 
The outcome was the destruction of the Jewish population in Palestine by 
the Crusaders. At the outset of this period, thejews of Palestine heard the 
footsteps of the Messiah in the stamping of the horses’ hooves of the 
Muslim conquerers; the finale of this era marked their annihilation and 
destruction. 

Some indication of what had occurred can be found in a letter of the 
leader of the Aleppo Jews at the time, Baruch b. Isaac. In a letter which is 
mainly a recommendation for Obadiah, a Norman proselyte, he included 
rhymed expressions of mourning (mostly in Biblical terms) on the de¬ 
struction of Palestine andjerusalem, on the slaughter, on captivity, and on 
the total annihilation of the Jewish population. He writes about ‘the 
daughter ofjeshurun [whose] . . . restorers who were strengthening her 
[house] became powerless’; about ‘their despairing of the soul because of 
the fury of the oppressor’; ‘the terrible famine’; about Jerusalem - ‘it 
became abhorred by the nation’; ‘for a child to be hired out and a girl to be 
given for a price’; ‘those who dwell in'the midst of the land were defiled’; 
‘their blood was shed like rivulets’; ‘their houses were handed over to 
those who despoiled them’; ‘they were thrown away from a holy place, to 
breathe the dust of a foreign land’. He sums up the annihilation of the 
entire Jewish population of Palestine by saying that ‘everyone who be¬ 
lieves in the uniqueness of God, was banished from every corner of the 
holy soil’. 9 

9 Baruch b. Isaac’s letter: Bodl MS Heb a 3, f. 1, edited by Wertheimer, Ginze Yerushdlayim 
2(1901), 16f; its verso was quoted by Mann, Jews, II, 236, and the last part, which 
Wertheimer did not edit, with details on Obadiah, was edited by him in REJ, 89 (1930), 
247ff; cf. Dinur, Zion (ha-me’assef) 2(1926/7), 51; see the corrections and discussion on the 
letter in Golb, Goitein Jubilee Volume, 90-94, and his new edition of the entire letter, ibid., 
103-106, and also references to all earlier discussions on Obadiah the proselyte. 


837 




Chronology 


610 

611 

614 

619 

622-628 

622, end of September 

628, end of summer 

629, September 

630, October- 
December 

631, 12 March 

632, 8 June 

633, spring 

633, autumn 

634, February-March 
634, beginning of May 
634, summer 

634, 30 July 
634, 23 August 

634, 25 December 

635, 12 March 

635, 10 September 

636, 23 July (or 13 
August) 


Heraclius is crowned emperor of Byzantium 
the Persians start their offensive against Byzantium 
Jerusalem is conquered by the Persians 
Sophronius arrives in Palestine 
the Byzantines fight back against the Persians 
the hijra 

conquest of Khaybar 

raid on Mu’ta 

the Tabuk expedition 

the Holy Cross is returned to Jerusalem 
death of Muhammad 
suppression of the ridda 

Sophronius is appointed patriarch of Jerusalem 
the invasion of Palestine begins 
Khalid b. al-Walld arrives in Palestine 
defeat of the Muslims at Marj Suffar 
battle of Ijnadayn 

death of the caliph Abu Bakr; he is succeeded by 

‘Umar ibn al-Khattab 

sermon of Sophronius in Jerusalem 

siege of Damascus begins 

conquest of Damascus 

battle of the Yarmuk 


638 Emperor Heraclius proclaims his new religious 

programme (monotheletism) 

638 (probably at the conquest of Jerusalem 

beginning of the year) 


639 the plague of ‘Imwas 

640, October conquest of Caesarea 

641 ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab introduces a new order in the 

grants for the Muslims 


839 



CHRONOLOGY 


644, November 

647 

652 

654/5 

658/9 

659, 9 June 
661 
674 
677 

677 

678 

680, April 

680,10 October 
682 

683/4 

683, November 
684 

684, June 

684, July 

685, April 
685/6 
686 (?) 

688 
ca. 690 

691 

692 

692, October 

695 

696/7 

699/700 

700 

704 

705 

705, 14 September 


murder of the caliph ‘Umar; he is succeeded by 
‘Uthman b. ‘Affan 

the Muslim fleet sets sail from Acre to the conquest of 
Cyprus 

death of Aws b. al-Samit, in Ramla (?) 
death of ‘Ubada b. al-Samit, in Ramla (?) 

Shumayr al-Khath‘ami is appointed as governor of 

jund Filastln 

earthquake in Palestine 

Mu'awiya is proclaimed caliph in Jerusalem 

death of Thawban b. Yamrud 

death of Ka‘b b. Murra al-BahzI, in Tiberias 

death of Abu Muhammad ‘Abdallah b. al-Sa‘dI 

death of ‘Abdallah b. Hawala, in Tiberias 

death of the caliph Mu'awiya; Yazld b. Mu'awiya 

succeeds him, coming from Jerusalem 

murder of al-Husayn b. ‘All ibn Ab! Talib, in Karbala 

Tarlf b. Habis, who is Ibn Khushkhash al-Hilall, is 

appointed as chief of the tribes in jund Filastln 

mention of Abu Rashid, governor of Nessana 

death of Yazld b. Mu'awiya; Mu'awiya II, b. Yazld, 

succeeds him as caliph 

death of Hubaysh b. Dalaja, chief of the Banu Quda'a 
in Palestine 

Marwan b. al-Hakam becomes caliph 

victory of the supporters of the Umayyads at Marj 

Rahit 

‘Abd al-Malik b. Marwan becomes caliph 

death of Natil b. Qays, chief of the Banu Judham 

destruction of Caesarea and Ascalon by the Byzantines 

and deportation of their populations 

beginning of the construction of the Dome of the Rock 

‘All b. ‘Abdallah b. ‘Abbas settles in Humayma 

Anastasius is appointed patriarch of Jerusalem 

the construction of the Dome of the Rock is completed 

final defeat of‘Abdallah b, al-Zubayr 

first Muslim dinars are minted 

death of ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Ghanm 

severe plague in Palestine 

the Dome of the Rock is hit by lightning 

death of Abu Qirsafa Wathila b. al-Asqa‘ 

plague ‘of the girls’ 

death of the caliph ‘Abd al-Malik; he is succeeded by 
his son, al-Walld 


840 



CHRONOLOGY 


706 

John (V) is appointed patriarch of Jerusalem 

708 

death of Abu Bishr ‘Abdallah b. Fayruz, in Jerusalem 

713, 13 January 

Petrus of Capitolias (Bayt Ra’s) is executed by the 
Arabs 

ca. 714 

foundation of Ramla 

715, 24 February 

death of the caliph al-Walld; he is succeeded by 
Sulayman b. ‘Abd al-Malik, who is brought from 
Ramla 

717, September 

death of the caliph Sulayman; he is succeeded by 
‘Umar b. ‘Abd al-‘AzTz 

718 

death of Mahmud b. al-Rabi‘ b. Suraqa al-Madani, in 
Jerusalem 

719/729 

the church in Ma'in is reconstructed 

720, February 

death of the caliph ‘Umar b. ‘Abd al-‘AzTz; he is 
succeeded by Yazld b. ‘Abd al-Malik 

723 

Willibald visits Tiberias 

724 

death of the caliph Yazld b. ‘Abd al-Malik; his brother 
Hisham succeeds him 

728 

death of al-Qasim b. ‘Abd al-Rahman b. ‘Abdallah b. 
Mas'ud 

730/1 

death of Raja’ b. Hayawa 

ca. 732 

John of Damascus joins the monastery of Mar Saba 

733/4 

plagues in Palestine 

736 

death of‘Ubada b. Nussay 

737 

the tribes ofjund Filastln fight the Turks in Central 
Asia 

738, 18 January 

earthquake 

742 

death of Muhammad b. Muslim b. Shihab al-Zuhrl 

743 

an irrigation channel is dug in the Jordan Valley 

743, February 

death of the caliph Hisham b. ‘Abd al-Malik; he is 
succeeded by al-Walid b. Yazld b. ‘Abd al-Malik 

744, spring 

beginning of wide-spread mutinies against the 
Umayyads 

744, April 

the murder of the caliph al-Walid b. Yazld, he is 
succeeded by Yazld b. al-Walid b. ‘Abd al-Malik 

744, October 

the murder of the caliph Yazld; he is succeeded by 
Ibrahim b. al-Walid b. ‘Abd al-Malik 

744, November 

the caliph Ibrahim is defeated; Marwan b. Muhammad 
b. Marwan becomes caliph 

745 

Theodore (I) is appointed as patriarch of Jerusalem 

748, 28 January 

a strong earthquake, mainly in Tiberias 

750, January 

defeat of the Umayyads, on the Great Zab 

751, 4 March 

Salih b. ‘All is appointed governor ofjund Filastln 

752/3 

‘Ata’ b. Abi Muslim dies in Jericho 

753, 8 October 

Salih b. ‘All’s appointment is extended also to Trans¬ 
jordan 


841 



CHRONOLOGY 


754, 9 June 

death of the caliph Abu’l-‘ Abbas al-Saffiih; he is 
succeeded by his brother Abu Ja‘far al-Mansur 

758 

Jerusalem is visited by the caliph al-Mansur 

764 

Theodore, patriarch of Jerusalem, proclaims a ban 
against Cosmas, the iconoclast 

765 

death of Abu Zur‘a Yahya b, Abi ‘Amr al-Saybanl, in 
Ramla 

768 

death of the poet Ibrahim b. Abi ‘Abla (Abu ‘Abla: 
Shamir b. Yaqzan), in Jerusalem 

770 

Elias (11) is appointed patriarch ofjerusalem 

770 

death of Thawr b. Yazid 

771 

Jerusalem is visited by the caliph al-Mansur 

772, beginning 

al-Mahdi orders a mosque to be built in Ascalon 

773 

death of ‘Abdallah b. Shawdhib 

775 

death of‘Abd al-Wahhab b. Ibrahim, the governor of 
jund Filastin 

775, October 

death of the caliph al-Mansur; he is succeeded by his 
son, al-Mahdi 

778 

Ibrahim b. Adham falls in battle with the Byzantines 

778 

death of Raja’ b. Mihran 

780 

the caliph al-Mahdi visits Jerusalem 

780 

Ibrahim b. Salih, the governor of jund Filastin, is 
removed from office by the caliph al-Mahdi 

785, 4 August 

death of the caliph al-Mahdi; he is succeeded by his 
son, al-Hadl 

786, 13 September 

death of the caliph al-Hadl; he is succeeded by his 
brother, Harun al-Rashld 

786/7 

death of the Ascalonian Abu Ghassan Muhammad b. 
Mutarrif 

787 

Ibrahim b. Salih is reinstated as governor ofjund 
Filastin instead of Rawh b. Hatim 

788-790 

the rebellion of Yahya b, Irmiya 

789, 14 April 

Christoforos, a Muslim who converted to Christianity, 
is executed 

789, May 

inscription in the pool of Ramla 

792/3 

war between the tribes in Palestine 

793, 29 December 

end of the war of the tribes 

796 

Harthama b. A‘yun is removed from his office as 
governor ofjund Filastin 

796, 13-20 March 

Arabs attack the monastery of Mar Saba 

796/7 

death of Abu Shihab Ahmad al-‘AqrabanI, in ‘Aqraba 

797 

George is appointed patriarch ofjerusalem 

797 

embassy of Charlemagne to Harun al-Rashld 

797 

death ofHafs b. Maysara, in Ascalon 


842 



CHRONOLOGY 


797, November 

798 

799 
801 
801 


ca. 805 

806, December 

807 

807 


807 

807 

809 

809, March 


810 

810 

811, September 

812, 20 September 

813 

813, April 
813, September 


814 (?) 

814, January 


ca. 815 
817 

817, March 

819, 25 August 
820 


death of‘Abd al-Rahman ‘Abdallah b. al-Mubarak b. 

Wadih al-Hanzali al-Tamlml, in Eilat 

death of al-Walld b. Muhammad al-Muwaqqari, in 

Trans-Jordan 

a monk from Jerusalem visits Charlemagne 
embassy from Harun al-Rashld to Charlemagne 
death of Rabi‘a b. Isma‘11, Umm al-Khayr, in 
Jerusalem 

writings of the Judaean Desert sect are found in a cave 
near Jericho 

death of‘Abd al-Rahman b. al-Qasim al-'Utaql, Ramla 

Thomas (I) is appointed patriarch of Jerusalem 

Caliph Harun al-Rashid orders the destruction of the 

non-Muslim prayer houses; destruction of the church 

of Mary Magdalene in Jerusalem 

exchange of embassies between Charlemagne and 

Harun al-Rashld 

rebellion of Abu’l-Nida’ 

rebellion of the tribes in jund Filasrin 

death of the caliph Harun al-Rashld; he is succeeded by 

his son, al-Amln; his struggle with his brother al- 

Ma’mun starts in the same year 

decree of Charlemagne regarding gifts for Jerusalem 

rebellions in Palestine, lead by ‘Umar 

anti-Abbasid rebellion in Damascus 

death of Abu Sufyan Wakl‘ b. al-Jarrah b. Malih al- 

RawasI in Jerusalem 

Christians in Palestine are attacked; many flee the 
country 

death of Abu Kharbaq Salama b, Rawh, in Eilat 
murder of the caliph al-Amln; his brother al-Ma’mun 
becomes caliph; victory of the ‘northern’ tribes over 
the ‘southerners’; beginning of the rebellion of Nasr b. 
Shabath 

famine, caused by locusts, in Palestine 

death of Abu ‘Uthman ‘Anbasa b. Khalid b. Yazld b. 

Abfl-Najjad, in Eilat 

Masrur ibn Abl ‘Amir, governor of Nabulus, is 
executed for having sided with the Samaritans 
death of Abu Zakkariyya’ Yahya b. ‘Isa b. ‘Abd al- 
Rahman al-Nahshali, in Ramla 

death of Abu ‘Abdallah Damra b. Rabfa al-Qurashl, in 
Ramla 

death of Abu ‘Abdallah Muhammad b. Idris al-Shafi‘I 
Basil is appointed patriarch ofjerusalem 


843 



CHRONOLOGY 


ca. 820 
824, April 

ca. 825 
827 

ca. 830 
830/1 

831, May-June 

833, August 

835 

835 

835 

835, June 

836 


837 

838 
841 


842, January 


842 

842 

847 

847 (?) 

850 

851/2 

852/3 

853, January 
855 

855, October 

856/7 

858 


repair of the church of the Holy Sepulchre 

death of Abu Ya'qub Ishaq b. Isma'Il b. ‘Abd al-A‘la b. 

‘Abd al-Hamld, in Eilat 

severe dispute over the exilarchate 

‘Abdallah b. Tahir, the Abbasid commander, is in 

Jerusalem 

torture of the Graptoi brothers in Constantinople 
al-Ma’mun stays in al-Sham during the war with the 
Byzantines; his visit in Jerusalem (?) 
al-Ma’mun’s name is inscribed in the Dome of the 
Rock 

death of the caliph al-Ma’mun; he is succeeded by his 
brother al-Mu‘tasim 

a Nestorian bishop is appointed in Jerusalem 

the exilarch’s letter on matters of the calendar 

death of al-Hasan b. Waqi', in Ramla 

death of Abu’l-Hasan Adam b. Abl lyas, in Ascalon 

Basil, patriarch of Jerusalem, convenes a council of the 

Church in Jerusalem in order to combat the 

iconoclastic policy 

death of Khalid b. Nizar b. al-Mughlra b. Salim, in 
Eilat 

John (VI) is appointed patriarch of Jerusalem 
‘AIT b. Ishaq b.Yahya b. Mu'adh al-DarikanT rebels 
against Raja’ b. Abfl-Dahhak, the governor of 
Damascus and Urdunn 

death of the caliph al-Mu‘tasim; he is succeeded by his 
son, al-Wathiq 

Sergius (I) is appointed patriarch of Jerusalem 
the rebellion of Abu Harb Tamlm al-Mubarqa' 
death of the caliph al-Wathiq; he is succeeded by his 
brother, al-Mutawakkil 

death, in Ramla, of Abu Khalid Yazld b. Khalid b. 
Yazld al-Hamadanl 

the caliph al-Mutawakkil orders the destruction of the 
non-Muslims’ prayer houses 
a big fire in Ascalon 

death, in Ramla, of Abu’l-Asbagh Muhammad b. 
Sima'a 

death, in Ascalon, of Muhammad b. al-Mutawakkil b. 
Abl’l-Surrl 

Solomon is appointed patriarch of Jerusalem 
revolt of the Christians in Hims 
earthquake in Palestine 

Frotmund, a French aristocrat, makes a pilgrimage to 
Jerusalem 


844 



CHRONOLOGY 


859, December 

(a. 860 

860 
ca. 860 

861, December 

862 

862 

864 

866, end 

866, February (?) 

866-868 

867, 16 March 
ca. 868 

868, 1 July 

868, September 
869 

869, June 

869, 16 December 

870, January 

870, June 

871, May 
872/3 

874, 7 February 

876, February 

877, December 

878 


death of the cadi Abu Sa'id ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Ibrahim 
b. ‘Amr b. Maymun al-Qurashi (who is Duhaym b, 
al-Yatim) 

works of broadening the mountain passage, ‘Aqaba, 
near Eilat 

Theodosius is appointed patriarch of Jerusalem 
death of Jehoshaphat b. Josiah, nasi and head of the 
Palestinian yeshiva; he is succeeded by his brother, 
Semah 

murder of the caliph al-Mutawakkil; he is succeeded by 
his son, al-Muntasir 

death of the caliph al-Muntasir; he is succeeded by his 
cousin, al-Musta‘in b. Muhammad b. aI-Mu‘tasim 
the deacon Theodore copies an uncial codex in Tiberias 
death of the cadi Abu Bakr Muhammad b. al-Harith b. 
al-Nu‘man al-Iyadi 

the caliph al-Mu‘tazz appoints ‘Isa b. al-Shaykh as 
governor in Ramla 

the caliph al-Musta'in is removed from the throne; he 

is succeeded by al-Mu‘tazz b. al-Mutawakkil 

the Bedouin are in control of Palestine 

death of Harun b. Sa'Td b. al-Haytham, in Eilat 

the monk Bernard visits Palestine 

death of Abu ‘Abd al-Rahman Mu’ammal b. Ihab, in 

Ramla 

Ahmad ibn Tulun arrives in Egypt 

Elias, the Jerusalemite synkellos, is at the Council of 

the Church in Constantinople 

the caliph al-Mu‘tazz is murdered; he is succeeded by 
al-Mu‘tamid b. al-Mutawakkil 
death of Abu ‘Umayr ‘Isa b. Muhammad b. Ishaq 
(who is Ibn al-Nahhas) 

death of Muhammad ibn Karram, in Jerusalem 

the caliph al-Muhtadi is murdered; he is succeeded by 

al-Mu‘tamid b. al-Mutawakkil 

‘Isa b. Shaykh leaves Palestine; the Turk Amajur 

becomes its governor 

Hanina b. Yannai, of Baghdad, divorces his wife, in 
Jerusalem 

death of Abu Sulayman Ayyub b. Ishaq b. Ibrahim b. 
Safari, in Ramla 

death of Abu ‘Imran Musa b. Sahl b. Qadim, in Ramla 
Stephen ibn Hakam completes the copying of a treatise 
by Theodore Abu Qurra, in Ramla 
Elias (III) is appointed patriarch ofjerusalem 


845 



CHRONOLOGY 


878, May 

Ahmad ibn Tulun enters Ramla, at the head of his 
army 

879, May 

Pope John VIII writes to Elias III, patriarch of 
Jerusalem 

ca. 880 

Daniel al-Qumis! arrives in Palestine 

880/81 

death of Abu ‘Abdallah Muhammad b. ‘Aziz b, 
‘Abdallah b. Ziyad b. Khalid b. ‘Uqayl b. Khalid 

881 

the appointment of a Christian governor in Ramla is 
mentioned by the patriarch Elias 

884, May 

death of Ahmad ibn Tulun; he is succeeded by his son, 
Khumarawayh 

884, 16 October 

death of Muhammad b. Hammad al-RazI al-Tabarani, 
in Ascalon 

885, February 

Ibn al-Muwaffaq enters Damascus 

885, 5 April 

battle of al-Tawahln, between Khumarawayh and Ibn 
al-Muwaffaq 

887 

death, in Ramla, of the Jerusalemite Ahmad b. 
Zakariyya’ b. Yahya 

887/8 

death of Ahmad b. Mas‘ud al-Khayyat, in Jerusalem 

888, June 

Khumarawayh visits Ramla during his military 
expedition to Syria 

888/9 

Ahmad b. ‘Abdallah al-Lihyanl stays in Acre and 
teaches there 

892, January-February 

death of‘Abd al-Rahman b. Harun b. Sa'td b. al- 
Haytham, in Ramla 

892, October 

death of the caliph al-Mu‘tamid; he is succeeded by his 
brother’s son, al-Mu‘tadid b. al-Muwaffaq 

893 

Abu ‘Abdallah, the emissary of the Fatimids, arrives in 
North Africa 

893 

the Nestorian bishop of Jerusalem is appointed 
metropolitan of Damascus 

ca. 893 

Aaron b. Moses b. Meir becomes head of the 
Palestinian yeshiva 

893, November 

death of Abu Hamid Hamdan b. Gharim al-Zandl 

895 

death of Abu Shu‘ayb Salih ibn Yusuf (al-Muqanna‘), 
in Ramla 

896 

Stephen ibn al-Hakam copies the four gospels, in 
Ramla 

897 

Harun b. Khumarawayh appoints Abu Zur‘a 
Muhammad b. ‘Uthman as chief cadi of Palestine 

901 

anba Musa b, Hakim al-QasIs does copying work in 
Adhruh 

902, 5 April 

death of the caliph al-Mu‘tadid; he is succeeded by his 
son, al-Muktafi 

902, July 

‘Ubaydallah the Fatimid mahdi and his retinue watch 
falling stars, in Ramla 


846 



CHRONOLOGY 


904, February 

904, end of December 

905, June 

905, December 

906, 4 April 

906, April-May (?) 
906, May 
906, 16 June 

906/7 

908 

908, August 

ca. 910 
912 
ca. 912 


913 

913/4 

914/5 

914/5 

915/6 

917, October 

918, October 
918, December 
918/9 

920 

921, summer 

922, September 

923, 3 January 


death of Ahmad b. ‘Amr, al-Bazzar al-‘Ataki, in 
Ramla 

Khumarawayh the Tulunid is murdered 
al-Khalanjl conquers Ramla 

Ahmad b. Kayghalagh is defeated by al-Khalanjl, near 
al-‘Arish 

Elias, the patriarch ofjerusalem, annoints Christodulos 

of Aleppo, as patriarch of Alexandria 

Tiberias is conquered by the Qarmatls 

al-Khalanji is defeated by the Abbasid army 

the Qarmatls raid Hit (on the Euphrates), after their 

retreat from Palestine 

death of‘Abd al-Samad b. Muhammad b. Abi ‘Imran 
(Abu Muhammad al-Hamadani), in ‘Aynun 
Sergius (II) is appointed patriarch ofjerusalem 
death of the caliph al-Muktafi; he is succeeded by his 
brother, al-Muqtadir 

Isaac becomes head of the Palestinian yeshiva 
Leo (I) is appointed as patriarch ofjerusalem 
Meir b. Aaron b. Moses becomes head of the 
Palestinian yeshiva; he is assisted by his son Aaron, 
who succeeds him after his death (date unknown) 
FKiij/hnscriptions of a firnduq in Ramla 
the caliph al-Muqtadir appoints his son Abu’l- 1 Abbas 
as governor of al-Sham 

death of Ahmad ibn ‘All ibn Shu'ayb al-Nasa’i, in 
Ramla 

death of Abu Zur‘a Muhammad b. ‘Uthman, former 
chief cadi of Palestine, in Damascus 
death of Abu Bakr Yamut b. al-Muzarra‘, in Tiberias 
Funerary inscription on the Temple Mount: Hiba b. 
Sulayman and Salama b. Hiba 

death of Abu’l-Hasan Mansur b. Isma‘il al-Darir, of 
Ramla 

death of Abu ‘Abdallah Ahmad b. Yahya, Ibn al-Jalla’, 
in Ramla 

the Abbasid army passes through Palestine on its way 
to Egypt 

death of Abu ‘Abdallah al-Tawwazi, in Tiberias 
beginning of the calendar dispute between Babylonia 
and Palestine 

Meir Gaon sends his son Aaron to Jerusalem, to 
proclaim the calendar order for the next year 
Saadia Gaon writes his third letter on the calendar 
dispute 


847 



CHRONOLOGY 


ca. 926 

Abraham b. Aaron b. Meir becomes head of the 
Palestinian yeshiva 

927 

death of Abu’l-Qasim ‘Abdallah b. Muhammad b. 

Ja‘far al-Qazwini, cadi of Ramla 

928 

Muhammad ibn Tughj (the Ikhshid) becomes governor 
ofjund Filastm 

929 

Athanasius (I) is appointed patriarch ofjerusalcm 

ca. 930 

Abu’l-Hawa’ NasTm b. ‘Abdallah is appointed 
governor of Jerusalem 

931 July 

Muhammad ibn Tughj (the Ikhshid) is appointed 
governor of Damascus; al-Rashidi is appointed as 
governor ofjund Filastm in his stead 

932, 31 October 

the caliph al-Muqtadir is murdered; he is succeeded by 
his brother, al-Qahir 

ca. 933 

Aaron ha-Kohen becomes head of the Palestinian 
yeshiva 

933, March 

funeral ofTakin, governor of Egypt, in Jerusalem 

934, 24 April 

the caliph al-Qahir is removed from his throne; he is 
succeeded by al-Radi b. al-Muqtadir 

935, July 

Muflih the black is appointed as governor ofjerusalcm 
instead of NasTm b. ‘Abdallah 

935, 9 December 

death of Abu’l-Qasim Muhammad ibn al-Hasan al- 
Nakha‘ 1 , Ibn Ka’s, in Ramla 

936 

al-Mas‘udi visits Tiberias 

936, February 

death of Abu Bakr Muhammad b. Ahmad b. ‘Umar 
(al-Darir), in Ramla 

937 

the Ikhshid writes to Emperor Romanus boasting 
about his control of the holy places 

937 

Christodulus (I) is appointed patriarch of Jerusalem 

937 

death of Isma‘Il b. ‘Abd al-Wahid al-Raba‘I al-MaqdisI, 
in Ramla 

937 

death of Abu Bakr al-Khidr b. Muhammad al- 
Tanukhi, in Acre 

937, 26 March 

the church of the Resurrection is burnt down by 
Muslims; more churches in Jerusalem are attacked 

939, January 

death of Abu Nu‘aym Muhammad b. Ja‘far al-Khara‘iti 

939, 4 March 

death of Fadl b. Ja‘far ibn al-Furat, in Ramla 

939, 17 October 

Ramla is conquered by Ibn Ra’iq 

939, end 

battle of al-‘Arish, between Ibn Ra’iq and the Ikhshid 

ca. 940 

Ikhshidid pressure on Byzantium, through the 
patriarch ofjerusalem, to stop the maltreatment of 
Muslim prisoners 

940, 24 June 

the battle of Lajjun, between Ibn Ra’iq and the Ikhshid 

943, 14 April 

funerary inscription ofjabur, a Christian of Ramla 

945 

death of David (b. Daniel?) al-Qumisi, in Jerusalem 


848 



CHRONOLOGY 


946, July 
946, July 

946, August 

946, 22 December 

947 

948 

950 

951/2 

952, February 

953/4 

958/9 

959, 20 January 
960 

961/2 


962 

962 

962, 5 December 


963 

964 

964, May 
ca. 965 

966, 8 January 
966, end of May 

966, June (?) 

967 

967, 30 July 

968 

968, April 


Palestine is invaded by Sayf al-Dawla, the Hamdanid 
funeral of the IkhshTd, Muhammad ibn Tughj, in 
Jerusalem 

the emperor’s emissary to jund Filastin travels to Egypt 
in the company of Kafur 

the battle of Iksal; the Ikhshldid army defeats the 
Hamdanid Sayf al-Dawla 

description of the Paschal fire by Nicetas, a Byzantine 
official 

death of the cadi of Ramla, Abu'l-Tayyib Muhammad 
b. Muhammad al-Hanzali 
Agathon is appointed patriarch of Jerusalem 
inaugural inscription of a building in Jerusalem: 

Ahmad ibn Abi Karasa 

death of the grammarian Abu’l-Qasim ‘ Abd al- 

Rahman ibn Ishaq al-ZajjajT al-Nihawandi 

death of al-Hasan ibn Tughj, the Ikhshld’s brother, in 

Ramla 

death of al-Hasan b. Hajjaj b, Ghalib (Abu ‘All ibn 
Haydara al-Zayyat), of Tiberias 
funeral of Anujur, son of the IkhshTd, in Jerusalem 
query of the communities of the Rhine to the 
Palestinian yeshiva 

inscription of the Temple Mount, about the building of 
a wall to the order of‘All, son of the IkhshTd, and 
Kafur 

conquest of Aleppo by the Byzantines 
rebellion in Trans-Jordan, lead by Muhammad b. 
Ahmad al-Sulaml 

Muhammad b. Ahmad al-Sulaml, leader of the 
rebellion in Trans-Jordan, is exhibited before the 
people of Fustat 

death of the Jerusalemite Abu’l-Husayn Ahmad ibn 
Mahmud al-Shama‘T 

John (VII) is appointed as patriarch of Jerusalem 

Tiberias is raided by the QarmatTs 

death of the cadi of Ramla, ‘Uthman b. Muhammad b. 

Shadhan 

funeral of‘All, son of the IkhshTd, in Jerusalem 

anti-Christian riots in Jerusalem 

Christodulus (II) is appointed patriarch ofjerusalem 

al-Hasan al-A‘sam, leader of the QarmatTs, is in Ramla 

Ya‘qub ibn Killis’ conversion to Islam 

conquest of Tarsus by the Byzantines 

death of Kafur, ruler of Egypt; his funeral takes place 

in Jerusalem 


849 




CHRONOLOGY 


968, 28 October 

968, 23 December 

969 

969, 22 (or 24) 

February 

969, 5 August 

969, October— 
November 

970 

970, beginning of 
summer 

ca. 970 

970, 24 May 

970, middle of October 

971, August 

971, August- 
September 
971, 5 September 
971, 12 October 

971, end of December 

972 

972/3 

973, April 

973, May 
973, summer 

973, October 

974, spring 

975, end of the winter 

975, April 

975, 24 December 

976, May 


battle (in Ramla?) between the Qarmatls and the 
IkhshTdids; defeat of al-FIasan the Ikhshldid 
death of Christodulus II, patriarch of Jerusalem, in 
Egypt 

Thomas (II) is appointed patriarch of Jerusalem 

al-Hasan b. ‘Ubaydallah the Ikhshldid leaves Egypt for 
Ramla 

the Fatimid army enters Fustat 
Ramla is besieged by the Qarmatls 

Judith, grandmother of the emperor Henry II, makes a 

pilgrimage to Jerusalem 

the Fatimid army is sent to Palestine 

‘Ezrun ha-Kohen becomes head of the Palestinian 
yeshiva 

conquest of Ramla by the Fatimid army 

conquest of Damascus by the Fatimid army 

Sa'ada b. Hiyan is appointed as governor of Ramla by 

Jawhar 

conquest of Damascus by the Qarmatls and the Banu 
‘Uqayl 

conquest of Ramla by the Qarmatls 

death of the Tiberian writer Abu’l-Qasim Sulayman b. 

Ahmad al-Tabaranl 

the Qarmatl invasion of Egypt is repelled by Jawhar 
conquest of Nisibis by the Byzantines 
al-Hasan al-A‘sam becomes the exclusive leader of the 
Qarmatls 

Ahmad b. al-Musawwir, governor of Damascus, is 
removed from office by the Fatimids 
al-Mu‘izz, the Fatimid caliph, arrives in Egypt 
Palestine and southern Syria are again conquered by 
the Fatimids 

Ya'qub ibn Killis is entrusted by the caliph al-Mu‘izz 

with the internal affairs and the taxes 

the Qarmatls and their allies attack Egypt 

the northern coastal area of Palestine is attacked by 

Alptakin 

Damascus is conquered by Alptakin 

death of al-Mu‘izz, the Fatimid caliph; he is succeeded 

by his son, al-'Aztz 

a Fatimid army sets out northwards and conquers 
Palestine 


850 



CHRONOLOGY 


976, 1 July 

977, January 
977, 12 March 

977, 17 March 

978 

978, beginning of 
April 

978, June 
978, 15 August 

978, 31 August 

978, 28 October 
978/9, winter 

979, 3 May 

979, August 
979, 29 August 

979, end of August 

980, July 

980, 29 November 

981, June 
981, summer 
982/3, summer 

983 

983, 5 July 
983, autumn 

983, December 

984 
984 

ca. 985 

987/8 

988 

988 


the Fatimid army reaches Damascus 

retreat of the Fatimid army from Damascus 

Ramla is conquered by the Qarmatls 

death of al-Hasan al-A‘sam, leader of the Qarmatls, in 

Ramla 

Joseph (II) is appointed patriarch ofjerusalcm 
Jawhar and the remnants of his army hand over 
Ascalon to Alptakin 

al-‘Az!z leads a huge army into Palestine 

battle of al-Tawahm, between the Fatimid army and 

Alptakin with his allies; victory of the Fatimids 

Alptakin is caught by al-Mufarrij b. Daghfal 

al-‘AzIz arrives in Egypt after the victory 

Fadl b. Salih conducts negotiations with Abu Taghlib, 

the Hamdanid 

Abu Taghlib the Hamdanid is informed that he is 
invited to Egypt, by al-‘AzIz 

Abu Taghlib the Hamdanid sets out to attack Ramla 
Abu Taghlib the Hamdanid is defeated by the Fatimid 
army commanded by Fadl b. Salih, near Ramla 
an expeditionary army is sent by al-‘AzIz to Damascus 
death of Ahmad b. ‘Ata’ al-Rudhbadl, in Tyre 
a marriage deed from Damascus, apparently the 
marriage of‘Adi b. Manasse ibn al-Qazzaz: TS 8.129 
Damascus is besieged by a Fatimid army under the 
command of Subuktakln 

rebellion of the Bedouin in Palestine, led by the Banu 
Jarrah 

death of Abu Bakr Muhammad b. al-‘Abbas b. Waslf, 
in Gaza (?) 

Agapius is appointed patriarch of Jerusalem 
conquest of Damascus by the Fatimid army 
al-Mufarrij b. Daghfal takes part in the Byzantine siege 
of Aleppo 

the Fatimid administration hands over Damascus to 
Bakjur 

Orestes is appointed patriarch ofjerusalcm 
death of‘Abd al-Rahlm b. Muhammad al-Fariql, a 
preacher, in Ramla 

Shams al-DIn al-MuqaddasI writes his book on the 
Muslim lands 

death of Abu’l-Husayn Muhammad b. Ahmad al- 
Malatl, in Ascalon (?) 

Fadl b. Salih suppresses a rebellion in the Delta region 
pilgrimage to Jerusalem of Gontier, abbot of the 
monastery of St Aubain in Angers 

851 



CHRONOLOGY 


988, May 

988, 29 October 
989 

989 

989, 18 July 

990 

991 


991, 24 February 

992 

993 

993 

993, May 
993, 29 October 

994 

995 

996 

996, 14 October 

997, March 
997, April 

997, summer (?) 

998, May 
998, end (?) 

999 

999 

1000, 14 January 

1001, 28 April 


a Fatimid army sets out to conquer Damascus and is 
encamped in Ramla 
Bakjur leaves Damascus 

Joseph b. Isaac ibn Abitur writes to Samuel ha-Kohen 
Gaon b. Joseph 

Joseph b. Jacob ha-Ma‘aravi in Jerusalem copies the 
book of the first prophets 

Sherira and Hayy write to Samuel ha-Kohen Gaon b. 
Joseph 

Adalpert, bishop of the Slavs, performs a pilgrimage to 
Jerusalem 

‘Amid al-Dawla Abu Muhammad al-Hasan b. Salih 
al-Rudhbadi is appointed commander of the army in 
al-Sham 

death of the wazir Ya‘qub ibn Killis 
pilgrimage to Jerusalem of Adso, abbot of the 
Benedictine monastery in Lotharingia 
Fadl b. Salih is put in charge of the finances of the 
Fatimid regime 

David b. Boaz b. Jehoshaphat, a Karaite nasi, writes a 

commentary on Ecclesiastes 

‘Isa b. Nestorius is appointed wazir 

Hugo of Tuscany donates property to the Holy 

Sepulchre 

death of Abu’l-‘Abbas ‘Ubaydallah b. Muhammad 
al-Busti 

Orestes, patriarch ofjerusalem, sends an embassy to 
the Pope 

Rebellion in Tyre, led by ‘Allaqa, a mariner 

death of the caliph al-‘Aziz; he is succeeded by his son, 

al-Hakim 

‘Isa b. Nestorius is put to death, on the order of al- 
Hakim 

the battle of Ascalon, between the Berber and the Turk 

unities of the Fatimid army; victory of the Berbers 

Jaysh ibn Samsama attacks the Bedouin in Palestine 

a Fatimid army takes control of Tyre 

a Byzantine embassy arrives in Egypt for negotiations 

Fatimid victory over the Byzantines 

Barjawan is put to death, on the order of al-Hakim 

Bishara is appointed as governor of Tiberias by al- 

Hakim 

Isaac he-haver b. Solomon he-haver b. Meir Gaon 
completes the copying of sefer ha-duum (book of laws), 
in Acre (?) 


852 



CHRONOLOGY 


1002 

1002, beginning 

1002, 8 July 

1003 

1004 
ca. 1005 


1006 

1006, 18 July 

1007 

1007, spring 

1007, 24 June 

1007, 1 September 

1008 

1008, 15 November 

1009, 17 July 
1009, 28 September 
ca. 1010 

1010/11 

1011, 21 January 


1011, February 
1011, end 

1011, 31 December 
1012 

1012, April 

1012, 13 September 

1013, July 


Stephen, king of Hungary, founds a monastery in 
Jerusalem 

Samuel b. Hosha'na describes the sufferings of the 
Palestinian Jewish communities 
a Christian funerary inscription in Jerusalem 
first persecutions by al-Hakim; the church of St Mark 
in Fustat is destroyed 

Sahl ibn Killis (Ya'qub’s brother) is put to death, on 
the order of al-Hakim 

Abu’l-Zahir Mahmud b. Muhammad al-Nahwl, a high 
official of the Fatimids, is put to death on the order of 
al-Hakim 

the rebel Abu Rakwa is defeated by Fadl b. Salih 
'All b. Mufarrij, thejarrahid, is given a ceremonial 
dress by al-Hakim 

al-Hakim hands over seven villages in Palestine to the 
ruler of Aleppo 

conflict among the Christians in Egypt and in Palestine 
over the date of Easter 

Samuel ‘the third’ b. Hosha'na is in Damascus 
Hanania ha-Kohen av-bet-dm b. Joseph Gaon is in 
Fustat 

Foulque Nerra, Count of Anjou, goes on pilgrimage to 
Jerusalem 

death of Abu Ahmad ‘Abdallah b. Bakr, in Tiberias (?) 
Fadl b. Salih is put to death on the order of al-Hakim 
destruction of the church of the Resurrection 
death of‘Abdallah b. al-Walld al-Ansari, in Jerusalem 
flight of Abu'I-Qasim al-Husayn b. ‘All al-wazlr al- 
maghribi, from Egypt to Palestine 
Isma'il b. Salih (Fadl’s brother), al-Husayn b. Jawhar, 
and ‘Abd al-‘Az!z b. al-Nu‘man, are put to death on 
al-Hakim’s order 

uprising of the Bedouin in Palestine begins 
death of Shemaria b. Elhanan 

Jews in Fustat are attacked during the funeral of the 
cantor Palti’el 

beginning of al-Hakim’s oppressive decrees against 
Christians and Jews 

al-Mufarrij b. Daghfal appoints Theophilus patriarch 
ofjerusalem 

Abu’l-Futuh al-Hasan b. Ja'far is proclaimed caliph by 
the tribes of Palestine (al-Rashid bi’llah), in Ramla 
a Fatimid army under ‘All b. Ja'far ibn Fallah sets out 
for Palestine 


853 



CHRONOLOGY 


1014/5 

1014/5 

1015, 4 September 

1016, 10 September 
1016/7 

1017, spring 

1018/9 

1019/20 

1020, January 
1020, 10 July 

1020, November- 
Decembcr 

1021, 13 February 

1021, September 
1021, 24 November 
1022/3 

1023 

1023, 10 February 
1023, 21 August 

1023, 28 November 

1024 

1024, April 

1024, 18 May 

1024, May-July 
(September?) 
1024, June 
1024, 12 June 


destruction of the synagogues in Fustat 
a fragment of a deed from Ramla 
earthquake in Palestine; the dome of the Dome of the 
Rock collapses 

Husn, daughter of Kushnam, dedicates a Bible to the 

Karaite congregation in Jerusalem 

Mukhtar al-Dawla ibn Nizal al-Kitaml is appointed by 

al-Hakim as governor of Tripoli 

‘Azriqam the scribe dedicates a Bible to the Karaite 

synagogue in Ramla 

death of Abu’l-Fath Muhammad b. Ibrahim al-Bazzaz 

al-TarsusT (Ibn al-Basrl), in Jerusalem 

Abu Bakr al-Wasiti writes his book on the praises of 

Jerusalem 

death of Theophilus, patriarch of Jerusalem 
Nicephorus is appointed patriarch ofjerusalem 
a decree regarding the protection of churches and 
monasteries is issued by al-Hakim 
the caliph al-FIakim is murdered; he is succeeded by his 
son, al-Zahir 

al-Karajili meets Abu’l-Qasam ‘Isa b. ‘All al-‘UmarI in 
Ramla 

Samuel b. Jacob receives payment for copying the 
books of the prophets 

inscription on the Temple Mount: construction works 
ordered by the caliph al-Zahir 

Anushtakin al-Dizbiri is appointed as governor ofjund 
Filastln 

David ha-Levi b. Isaac is put in charge of the Fatimid 
finances 

a son of al-Mufarrij the Jarrahid visits Fustat and is 
received with great honours 

the marriage deed of the wife of Nathan ha-Kohen 
ha-Sefati b. Solomon (Tyre?) 

Abu’l-‘Assaf al-Kabbashi becomes cadi of Ramla 
the pilgrims’ caravan from Khurasan passes through 
Palestine 

Muhassin b. Badus is appointed to supervise the 
revenue from Palestine 
Ramla is taken by the Bedouin 

‘Abdallah b. Idris al-Ja‘fari and the Bedouin raid Eilat 
Abu Talib al-Gharabil! is appointed collector of the 
kharaj in Ramla, instead of‘Ubaydallah b. Yunus 


854 



CHRONOLOGY 


1024, 24 October 
1024, November 
1024, November 

1024, 26 November 

1024, end 
1024/5, winter 

1025, beginning 

1025, January 
1025, 16January 
1025, 24January 

1025, February 
1025, 14 February (10 
Dhu’l-Hijja, ‘id 
al-adhd ) 

1025, end of February 
1025, spring 
1025, spring 


1025, 13 March 

1025, 21 August 

1026 

1026 

1026, 11 March 

1026, April-May 

1026, July 

1027 

1027, March 

1028, 15 January 
1028, July 

1028, 20 December 

1029, 12 May 


Muhassin b. Badus, the Fatimid treasurer, is executed 

for his ties with the tribes of Palestine 

al-Hassan b. al-Mufarrij thejarrahid writes to the 

Fatimid caliph about his conditions for peace 

battle between Anushtakin al-Dizbiri and al-Hassan the 

Jarrahid, near Ascalon 

Anushtakin al-Dizbiri receives the title amir al-umara’ 
Aleppo is attacked by Salih b. Mirdas 
severe famine in Egypt 

the Bedouin abscond with a transport of apples from 
the Lebanon to Egypt 

al-‘Arfsh and al-Farama are attacked by the Bedouin 

Aleppo is conquered by Salih b, Mirdas 

the road to Eilat is obstructed and the Egyptian 

pilgrims are forced to return home 

beginning of al-Dizbiri’s offensive in Palestine 

Anushtakin al-Dizbir! prays in the Ramla mosque 


Ramla is retaken by al-Hassan thejarrahid 
death ofjosiah Gaon b. Aaron 

liquidation of remaining Jarrahid units in Palestine, by 
al-Dizbiri; al-Hassan thejarrahid flees to the 
Byzantines 

the fortress of Aleppo is conquered by Salih b. Mirdas 
death of Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon b. Joseph; he is 
succeeded by Solomon b. Judah 
Anushtakin al-Dizbiri is imprisoned in Ascalon 
death ofElhanan b. Shemaria 

death ofjosiah, the son of the haver of Gaza Yeshu'a b. 
Nathan 

Abraham b. Solomon b. Judah is in Fustat 
Abu’l-Faraj Harun completes his book al-mushtamil, in 
Jerusalem 

armistice agreement between the Fatimids and the 
Byzantines 

William of Angouleme and a group of pilgrims arrive 
in Jerusalem 

the court in Fustat deals with the inheritance of Khalaf 
b. Isaac, of Acre 

death of Sinan b. ‘Ulayyan, leader of the Banu Kalb, 
allies of the Jarrahids 

arrival in Palestine of a Fatimid army, under al-Dizbiri 
the Bedouin of Salih b. Mirdas (the Banu ‘Uqayl) are 
defeated by the Fatimid army at Uqhuwana 


855 



CHRONOLOGY 


1029, summer 

Abraham b. Solomon b. Judah travels to Tyre and 
Aleppo 

1029, 9 June 

a ban is proclaimed in ‘the cave’ in Jerusalem, against 
the (‘Babylonian’) adversary of Ephraim b. Shemaria 

1030 

Nicephorus (I) is appointed patriarch ofjerusalem 

1032 

inscription in the Dome of the Rock: the 
reconstruction was completed on Caliph al-Zahir’s 
orders 

1032 

death of Abu Muhammad Isma‘11 b. Raja’ b. Sa‘Td, in 
Ramla 

1033, 5-6 December 

earthquakes in Ramla and various regions of Palestine 

1034 

inscription on the Temple Mount: construction works 
ordered by the caliph al-Zahir 

1034 

pilgrimage to Jerusalem of Adhemar de Chabannes 

1034, 3 April 

a decree in favour of the Karaites is issued by al-Zahir 

1034, 7 April 

collapse of a wall close to ‘the cave’, the synagogue of 
the Jerusalem Jews 

1035 

death of Joseph the scribe, son-in-law of Ephraim b. 
Shemaria 

1035, 6 October 

inscription on the Temple Mount: completion of a 
dome, on the order of the wazlr al-Jarjara’I 

1035, 15 October 

a copy of the introduction to the Talmud by Samuel b. 
Hofni is completed, in Jerusalem 

1036 

Ioannikos is appointed patriarch ofjerusalem 

1036 

the church of the Resurrection is reconstructed 

1036, June 

death of the caliph al-Zahir; he is succeeded by his son, 
al-Mustansir 

1036/7 

Joseph ha-Kohen al-BasIr finishes the writing of his 
‘book of precepts’, in Jerusalem 

1037 

power of attorney from Aleppo 

1037, 9 September 

marriage of Sahlan b. Abraham 

1037/8 

an armistice is agreed between the Fatimids and the 
Byzantines 

1038, 18 April 

death of Hayy Gaon 

1038, autumn 

Daniel b. Azariah is in the Maghrib 

1038, 23 October 

beginning of the conflict between Solomon b. Judah 
and Nathan b. Abraham 

1038, 24 October 

Nathan b. Abraham is proclaimed Gaon by his 
followers 

1039,12 February 

mass gathering of Nathan b. Abraham’s followers in 
Ramla, during the reading of the megilla 

1039, spring and 

news of the strength of Nathan b. Abraham’s followers 

summer 

in Ramla 

1039, summer 

Jacob b. ‘Amram, the Nagid of Qayrawan, is 
requested by the followers of Solomon b. Judah to 
intervene in the conflict 


856 



CHRONOLOGY 


1039, 12 October gathering on the Mount of Olives, on hosha'ttd rabba, 

with many of Nathan b. Abraham’s supporters taking 
part; Solomon b. Judah is taken ill 

1039, middle of the synagogue of ‘the Palestinians’ in Fustat is closed 

November 

1039, December-1040, Nathan b. Abraham is in Fustat 
March 

ca. 1040 Hesed b. Sahl al-Tustari is appointed chief official of 

al-Dizbirl 

1041, 20 February the synagogue of‘the Palestinians’ in Ramla is closed 
for several days 

1041, 27 March a rosh kalld from Mosul arrives in Ramla 

1041, 8 May Joseph b. Kulayb writes an account on matters related 

to the conflict, from Ramla, to Nathan b. Abraham, 
who is (probably) in Tyre 

1041, autumn the synagogue of‘the Palestinians’ in Fustat is opened 

by Nathan b. Abraham’s faction, for themselves 

1041, end (?) a petition to the caliph, by the supporters of Solomon 

b. Judah 

1042 (?) al-Dizbiri quarrels with the wazir al-Jarjara’l and flees 

to Aleppo 

1042, 8 October agreement concluded between Solomon b. Judah and 

Nathan b. Abraham 

1043, beginning death of Tobiah b. Daniel, ‘the third’ of the yeshiva 

1044 Georgius Mtzamindeli, one of the saints of the Church 

of Georgia, visits Palestine 

1044, summer Abraham b. Sahl al-Tustari is appointed as wasita 

1045, spring Nasr Khusraw is in Jerusalem 

1047, February Nasr Khusraw is in Tyre 

1047, 1 March Nasr Khusraw visits Ramla 

1047, 25 October murder of Abraham b. Sahl al-Tustari 

1048 the reconstruction of the church of the Resurrection is 
completed 

1049 an order of Georgian monks is founded at the church 
of the Holy Sepulchre 

1049, summer a Fatimid army under Rifq is encamped in Ramla, on 

its way to Damascus 

1049 (or 1050), summer Hesed b. Sahl al-Tustari is executed 

1049, September (?) rebellion of the Bedouin in Palestine 

1050, 1 June the cadi Abu Muhammad al-Hasan b. ‘All is appointed 

wazir 

1051, April death of the Gaon Solomon b. Judah 

1051, 20 December efforts to reach a compromise between Daniel b. 

Azariah and Joseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon 


857 



CHRONOLOGY 


1052, March 

1052, 19 April 
1052, August 

1052, 18 September 
1053 

1053, middle of 
December 

1055 

1055, December 

1055-1059 

1055/6 


1056 

1057, 21 March 

1057, May 
1057, September 
1057, November 
1057, 17 December 


1058 

1058 

1058, March 

1059 

1059 

1059 

1059 

1059, end 

1060 

1062 

1062, March 
1062, August 
1063 

1063 


a Karaite delegation examines the state of the grain in 
the Gaza region 

beginning of the tribes’ taking control of Qayrawan 
agreement between Daniel b. Azariah and Joseph 
ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon 

gathering on hosha'na rabbd on the Mount of Olives; 
Daniel b. Azariah is proclaimed Gaon 
Odilus of Rouergue dedicates property to the church of 
the Holy Sepulchre 

death of Joseph ha-Kohen av-bet-din b. Solomon Gaon 

Conquest of Baghdad by the Saljuqs 

death of Abu’l-Faraj ‘Abd al-Wahhab b. al-Husayn 

al-Ghazzal, in Tyre 

drought and plagues in Egypt, Palestine, Syria and Iraq 
conflict between the Fatimids and the Byzantines; 
confiscation of property of the church of the 
Resurrection 

Georgius Mtzamindeli visits Palestine again 

‘Eli ha-Kohen writes a piyyut honouring Daniel b. 

Azariah 

death of Muhammad b. ‘All al-Karajiki, in Tyre 
Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac b. Furat is in Jerusalem 
destruction of Qayrawan 

Musa b. Jacob writes from Damascus on business 
matters, to Abu’l-A‘la Joseph b. Da’ud b. Sha‘ya in 
Fustat 

Menas is appointed patriarch ofjerusalem 

birth of David b. Daniel b. Azariah 

execution of Abu Muhammad al-Yazuri 

Israel b. Nathan (Sahlun) copies the mishna orders 

tidshmi and neztqln, in Jerusalem 

Sophronius (II) is appointed patriarch ofjerusalem 

death ofjudah ibn al-‘Uslura 

long stay of Daniel b. Azariah in Fustat 

beginning of Daniel b. Azariah’s illness 

collapse of the lighting system of the Dome of the 

Rock 

Makin al-Dawla al-Hasan b, Mulham is appointed 

governor of Tiberias and Acre by al-Mustansir 

queries from Fustat to the Gaon Daniel b. Azariah 

death of the Gaon Daniel b. Azariah 

the wall around the Christian quarter ofjerusalem is 

completed 

the cadi Abu Muhammad ibn ‘Ali ibn Abi ‘Aqll is in 
control of Tyre 

858 



CHRONOLOGY 


1064 (?) 

Ingulph visits Jaffa 

1065-1072 

drought in Egypt 

1065 

the head of the Nestorians in Jerusalem gets the rank of 
metropolitan 

1065, 15 March 

the pilgrims headed by Gunther, bishop of Bamberg, 
are attacked by Bedouin 

1067, summer 

Abiathar ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon is in Fustat 

1067, November 

the Turks in the Fatimid army raid Ramla 

1068, 18 March 

Eilat destroyed by earthquake 

1068, 29 May 

severe earthquake in Palestine 

1070 

Mark (II) is appointed patriarch ofjerusalem 

1070, summer 

a Fatimid army under Badr al-Jamall attacks Tyre 

1071 

Saljuq victory over the Byzantines at Manzikert 

1071 

Tahir b. Muhammad b. Salama al-Quda‘T al-Misrf 
teaches traditions in Jerusalem 

1071, spring 

Abiathar ha-Kohen b. Elijah Gaon is in Fustat 

1071, end 

the Turcomans invade Palestine, under Atsiz b. Uwaq 

1071/2 

death in Damascus of Ahmad b. Muhammad al- 
KattanT, of Ramla 

1072, 5 July 

deathbed will of Maymun b. Khalfa al-Maghribl 

1073 

death of the cadi Abu Muhammad ibn Abl ‘Aqll, 
master of Tyre 

1073, June-July 

conquest ofjerusalem by the Turcomans 

1073/4 

death of Abu ‘Abdallah Muhammad b. Muhammad 
al-Taliqanl, in Tyre (?) 

1074 

conquest of Acre and Tiberias by the Turcomans 

1075, April-May 

ShuklT is driven out of Acre by the army of Atsiz, 
which also conquers Tiberias, and slaughters its 
inhabitants 

1076, 10 August 

Abraham b. Nathan is in Ramla 

1076, 2 October 

beginning of Atsiz’ expedition against Egypt 

1077, 22 January 

Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph av-bet-dm writes a piyyut 
on the events in Palestine 

1077, 19 February 

defeat of Atsiz in Egypt 

1077, March 

Abiathar ha-Kohen b. Elijah Gaon and Abraham b. 
Nathan are in Fustat 

1077, 12 June 

deed of divorce from Ramla: Yefet b. Abraham 
divorces Sitt al-Husn 

1077/8 

Saadia he-hdver b. Israel writes a responsum on calendar 
matters, in Acre 

1078 

rebellion of the Muslims in Jerusalem against the 
Turcomans 

ca. 1078 

death of the nagid Judah b. Saadia 

1078 

David b. Daniel b. Azariah departs for Egypt 


859 



CHRONOLOGY 


1078/9 (?) 

the Palestinian yeshiva is transferred to Tyre 

1078/9 

Abu’l-Fath Nasr b. Ibrahim al-MaqdisI al-NabulusT, 
leader of the Shafi'ites, leaves Jerusalem to live in 
Damascus 

1078/9 

execution of Atsiz; Tutush and Artuq take control of 
Palestine 

1079, summer 

first evidence of the Palestinian yeshiva being in Tyre 

1079, 13 May 

Solomon and Isaac, great-grandchildren of Meir Gaon, 
sign as witnesses a court document in Tripoli (Syria) 

1079, 15 November 

David b. Daniel writes that he intends to set out from 
Damira to Fustat 

1079, end 

David b. Daniel arrives in Fustat 

1080 

Abu Muhammad Hiyaj b. ‘Ubayd, of Hittln, is killed 
in Mecca 

1081, 28 September 

gathering in Tyre, on Hosha'na rabba 

1082, 15January 

David b. Daniel marries Nashiya, daughter of Moses 
ha-Kohen b. Aaron 

1082, 18 September 

gathering in Haifa, on Hosha‘na rabba; sanctification of 
the year, proclamation of the calendar order 

1082/3 

Jerusalem is handed over to Artuq, by Turmush, Atsiz’ 
appointee (?) 

1083, November 

death of Elijah ha-Kohen Gaon b. Solomon 

1084 

Simon (II) is appointed patriarch of Jerusalem 

1085 

Solomon b. Hayyim, ‘the seventh’, in Fustat, is paid 
back 20 dinars which he had transferred to the 

Rabbanite Jews remaining in Jerusalem 

1085, April 

the Saljuqs try to conquer Ascalon from the Fatimids 

1086 

Palestine is handed over by Tutush to Artuq 

1087 

death of Salama b. Isma'il al-MaqdisI al-Darir, in 
Jerusalem 

1087/8 

pilgrimage of Urso, archbishop of Bari 

1089 

Tyre, Sidon, Beirut, Jubayl, Acre, are conquered by a 
Fatimid army under Munir (or: Naslr) al-Dawla al- 
Juyushl, who rebels against the Fatimids 

1091 

death of Artuq the Saljuqid 

1091 

Abu ‘AHJamfl b. Yusufb. Isma‘11 al-Mardani, of 
Baniyas, dies in Damascus 

1091, autumn 

David b. Daniel starts calling himself exilarch 

1092 

Malik b. Ahmad al-BaniyasI is killed in Baghdad (in 
the big fire) 

1092-1095 

Abu Bakr ibn al-‘Arabi stays in Jerusalem 

1093 

Muslims in the coastal cities of Palestine bar Christian 
pilgrims from entering the country 

1093 

Abu ‘All al-Hasan b. ‘Abd al-Samad b. Abfl-Shihna, 
of Ascalon, is killed 


860 



CHRONOLOGY 


1093, 12 July 
1093, August 
(approximately) 

1093, 23 September 

1094 (?) 

1094, 19 January 
1094, March 

1094, May 

1095, January 

1095, 26 February 
1096 

1096 

1096, 26 December 

1097, August- 
September 

1097, 21 October- 
1098, 2 June 

1098 

1098, 26 August 

1099, May 
1099, 15 July 
1104 

1105, beginning 
1110/11 
1111 

1111, 2 December 

1112, December 

1124 

1124, 8 July 
1126 

1129, September 
1130 

1144 

1153, 31 August 


suppression of Munir al-Dawla’s rebellion in Tyre 
Abraham b. Nathan and other emissaries of David b. 
Daniel arrive in Tyre 

a gathering of Rabbanites and Karaites in Tyre joins 
the acceptance of David b. Daniel as exilarch 
rebellion ofal-Katlla, governor of Tyre, against the 
Fatimids 

death of Abu’l-Faraj ‘Abd al-Wahid b. Ahmad al- 

ShlrazI al-Ansari, in Damascus 

Badr al-Jamall is taken ill; he is succeeded by his son, 

al-Afdal 

Mevorakh b. Saadia is reinstated; end of the affair of 
David b. Daniel 

Yashar b. Hesed al-Tustarl finishes the copying of a 

treatise on incest regulations 

Tutush is killed in battle 

al-Ghazall arrives in Jerusalem 

Euthymius is appointed patriarch of Jerusalem 

death of Abu’l-Fath Nasr b. Ibrahim al-MaqdisI al- 

NabulusI, in Damascus 

suppression of Katlla's rebellion in Tyre by a Fatimid 
army 

siege of Antioch by the Crusaders 

death of Samdun b. Husayn, in Baniyas 

al-Afdal captures Jerusalem from the Saljuqs 

conquest of Caesarea by the Crusaders 

conquest of Jerusalem by the Crusaders 

conquest of Acre by the Crusaders 

revenue of the heqdesh for the poor of Jerusalem is 

transferred from Fustat to Abiathar ha-Kohen in Tyre 

death of Abu’l-Hasan Idris b. Hamza, who had been 

head of the Shaffites in Jerusalem, in Samarqand 

siege of Damascus by the Crusaders 

death of the nagid Mevorakh b. Saadia 

death of the Jerusalemite cadi Muhammad b. al-Hasan 

al-Balasha‘unI, in Damascus 

death of the Shaffite scholar Abu’l-Fath Sultan b. 

Ibrahim, ofjerusalem 

conquest of Tyre by the Crusaders 

the hasliishiyya (the Assassins) conquer Baniyas 

conquest of Baniyas by the Crusaders 

Abu Ishaq Ibrahim b. Yahya b. ‘Uthman, of Gaza, dies 

in Khurasan 

death of Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevorakh, of Ascalon 
the head of al-Husayn b. ‘All is transferred from 
Ascalon to Fustat 


86i 



Bibliographical index 

W 


Entries are indexed by section numbers (inclusive of the notes) 
rather than page numbers 


Hebrew, Aramaic, Syriac, Judaea-Arabic 

Abraham Ibn Da’ud, Sefer ha-qabbala (the Book of Tradition), ed. G. D. Cohen, 
Philadelphia 1967 773, 833, 917 

Abraham Ibn Ezra, Commentary (as printed in the editions of the Hebrew Bi¬ 
ble) 827, 940 

Abraham b. Moses Maimonides (Maitnuni) Commentary on Genesis and Exodus, ed. 

E. Wiesenberg, London 1959 337, 338 

Abraham b. Moses Maimonides (Maimuni), Tesluivot ( Response :), ed. A. H. Frei- 
mann, transl. S. D. Goitein, Jerusalem 1937 853 

Abraham Zacuto, Sefer ha-yuhashi, ed. H. Filipowski, London 1857 729 

Abramson, S., Ba-tnerkazTm u-va-tejiisot, Jerusalem 1965 298, 572, 784, 795, 

796, 798, 800, 850, 852, 854, 87l' 

‘Inydiwt be-sifiut ha-ge'omm, Jerusalem 1974 347, 810, 912 

Qeta‘ hadash min ha-sefer essa meshall, Tarbiz, 32:160, 1962/3 733 

Rav Nissim Gaott, Jerusalem 1964/6 384, 912 

Abu’I-Fath, The Chronicle, ed. E. Vilmar, Gotha 1865 410-414, 941 

Ahliiia'as of Oria, ha-Megilla 2 , ed. B. Klar, Jerusalem 1974 561, 734, 741, 776, 

809, 827-828. 844, 937 

Alder, I., Ha-omnam nimse’u ba-geniza, Alei Sefer, 12:51, 1986 286 

‘All Ibn Sulayman, The Commentary on Genesis, ed. S. L. Skoss, Philadelphia 
1928 835, 938, 940 

Allony, N., ‘All b. Yehuda ha-nazir we-hibbiiro, Leshonemi 34:75, 187, 
1969/70 286 

Dunash we-adomm, Sinai, 43:385, 1957/8 13 

Kitab al-sab‘Tn lafza. 1. Goldziher Memorial Volume (Hebrew part), Jerusalem 
1958:1 123 

Shete reshimot, Kiryat Sefer, 38:531, 1962/3 378 

Allony, N. and Scheiber, A., Reshimat sefarirn, Kiryat Sefer, 48:152, 
1972/3 378 

Alon, G.. Studies ( Mehqdrun), Tel Aviv 1957 2 


862 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


‘Amram b. Sheshna, Seder 'amrdm ga’dn, ed. L. Frumkin, Jerusalem 1912 917 

Ankori, Z., Eliah Bashiyatsi (I), Tarbiz, 25:44, 1955/6 938 

Anonymous Syriac Chronicles, MSS BM Add 14,461; Or 14,463 50, 58, 

60-61 

The ‘Arukh of Nathan B. Yehi’el, ed. A. Kohut, Vienna 1878/92 123, 350 

Ashtor, E., Qawim li-demutah shel ha-qehilla, Zion, 30:61, 128, 1965 792, 

809 

Qdrot ha-yehudim bi-sejarad ha-muslimit, Jerusalem 1966 827, 854, 892 

Sefer ‘aravi, Tarbiz, 30:209, 1960/61 617 

Yedi'ot ‘al ha-yehudim bi-sefon E. I., Z. Shazar Jubilee Volume, Jerusalem 
1973:489 301, 329, 331 

Ashtor (Strauss), E., Kibbushe ha-mongolim, Zion, 4:51, 1939 76, 340 

Toledot ha-yehudim be-misrayim u-ve-suriya, Jerusalem 1944 et sqq. 746, 790 
Assaf, S., ‘Avadlm we-sahar ‘avadim, Zion, 5:271, 1940 372 

Batte ha-din we-sidrehem, Jerusalem 1924 868 

Be-ohole ya'aqov, Jerusalem 1943 937 

E. I. bi-theshiivot ge’one bavel, Zion (ha-me’assef), 1:21, 1925/6 737, 739, 

741 

Meqordt u-mehqdnm, Jerusalem 1946 85,116, 125, 252, 302, 309, 315, 325, 

564, 772, 775, 796, 827, 829 

Mi-sifrut ha-ge’onim, Jerusalem 1933 285, 384, 738-739, 754, 851 

Mi-teshuvot ha-ge’onlm, Jeschurun (Berlin), 5/6:45, 1925 853 

Perush-shishsha sidre mishna, Kiryat Sefer, 10:381, 1932/4 884 

Qinot, J. L. Zlotnik Jubilee Volume, Jerusalem 1950:162 896 

Qoves shel igerot rabbi shemu’el b. ‘all, Tarbiz, 1(1):102; (2):43; (3):15,142, 

1929/30; also quoted from its separate print: Qoves, Jerusalem 1930 728, 801, 

896, 915-916 

Review of Mann’s Texts and Studies l, Tarbiz, 3:340, 1931/2 478 

Sefer ha-yishuv, see Sefer ha-yishuv 

Seridim min ha-geniza , J. KlausnerJubilee Volume, Tel Aviv 1937:226 929 

Shetarot ‘atiqim, Yerushalayim, 1952/3:104 285, 309 

Shetarot suriyim, Eretz Israel, 1:140, 1950/51 298 

Teqiifat ha-ge’onim we-sijrutah, Jerusalem 1955 773, 884—885 

Teshuva u-mikhtav, Tarbiz, 19:105, 1947/8 300 

Teshuvot ha-ge’onim, Jerusalem 1942 383, 784, 798, 868 

Teshuvot ha-ge’onim mi-tokh ha-geniza, Jerusalem 1929 339 

Te‘udot hadashot, Zion (ha-me’assef), 2:112, 1927 813, 859 

Avi-Yonah, M., Bime roma u-vizantyon, Jerusalem 1970 8 

Ge’ogrdfya histbrit, Jerusalem 1962/3 122, 297, 310 

Avigad, N., Ketovet beniya, Qadmoniyot, 10:8, 1976/7 668 

Ayalon, D. (Neustadt), ‘Inyene negidut, Zion, 4:126, 1939 809 

Bar-Adon, P., Sinabere u-vet yerah, Eretz Israel, 4:50, 1956 92 

Bar Deroma, H., We-ze geviil ha-ares, Jerusalem 1958 310 

Gregorius Bar Hebraeus, Chronicon ecclesiasticum, ed. J. B. Abbeloos, Louvain 
1872 678, 732, 919 


863 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


The Chronicle, ed. Bedjan 1890; ed. and transl. E. A. W. Budge, Oxford 
1932 50, 65, 69, 72, 81, 376, 410, 414, 420, 482, 550, 560, 565, 571, 597, 606, 

701, 716 

Barekct, E., Elhanan b. shemarya we-sahlan b. avraham (MA thesis), Tel Aviv 
Univ. 1979/80 795, 806, 808 

Sahlan b. avraham, Tarbiz, 52:17, 1982/3 795 

Beit-Arie, M., ha-Pale’ografiya shel qit‘e ha-genlza, Te'uda , 1:193, 1980 193, 

342 

Ben Horin, Review of Prawer’s Mamlekhet Yerushalayim ha-salvdnlt, Kiryat Sefer, 
24:108, 1947/8 330, 603, 839 

Ben-Sasson, H. H., Demutah shel ‘adat ha-shoshamm, Shalem, 2:1, 
1975/6 933 

Ri’shone ha-qara’Tm, Zion, 15:42, 1950 919, 935 

Ben-Sasson, M., Ge’onuto shel shemu’el ha-kohen, Zion , 51:379, 1985 797, 

828, 854 

Ben-Shammai, H., DanT’el al-qumisT we-tolodet E. I., Shalem, 3:295, 
1980/81 11, 669, 921 

Ha'aliyya le-E. I., Cathedra, 8:145, 1977/8 824 

Mahadura we-nusha’ot mi-perushe yefet ben ‘all, Alei Sefer, 2:17, 
1975/6 925 

Ben-Zvi, I., Keter ha-tora, Sinai, 43:5, 1957/8 289 

Benjamin b. Jonah ofTudela, Sefer massa'dt, ed. Asher, London 1840; ed. Adler, 
London 1907 308, 325, 330, 360, 746, 790, 900, 944 

Benjamin al-Nihawandl, Masse’at benydtmn, Eupatoria 1835 274 

Blau, J., Diqduq ha-‘ardvlt ha-yehudtt, Jerusalem 1961 

Bornstein, H. J., Divre yeme ha-‘ibbur, Hatequfa, 14-15:321; 16:228, 
1921/2 785-788, 929 

Mahaloqet rav se'adya ga’on, N. Sokolow Jubilee Volume, Warsaw 
1904:19 738, 784-789, 828, 831, 840, 849, 852, 902, 922 

Braslavi, J., ‘Aliyot regalim, Ha-kinnus (xxv), Yerushalayim le-doroteha-. 
120 841 

Le-heqer arsenu, Tel Aviv 1954 119, 255, 301, 307, 319, 324, 325-329, 828 

Le-minnuyo shel rabbi evyatar, Eretz-Israel, 5:220, 1959 302, 899, 900 

Li-meqomot ha-yishuv ha-yehudl, BJPES, 5:27, 1936/8 840, 848 

Madrikh E. I. min ha-genlza, Eretz-Israel, 7:69, 1963/4 840 

Qma ‘al rabbi sadoq, Tarbiz, 32:174, 1962/3 111 

Brawer, A. J., Ha-yesod ha-yehudl she-be-‘arvlye E. I., Molad, 24:424, 
1966/8 334 

Cassuto, M. D., ‘Al ma nehlequ, etc., Sefer rav se'adyd gd’dn: 333, Jerusalem 

1942 787 

Chapira, E. D. (B.), Mikhtav me-ramla lirushalayim, Yerushalayim, 4:118, 

1952/3 383, 879 

Chronicon anonymutn ad A. C. 1234pertinens, ed. J. B. Chabot, CISCO (Syri) nos. 
36, 37 (transl. byj. B. Chabot, further by A. Abouna, ibid., nos. 36,154) 46, 

58, 62, 69, 607 


864 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Cohen, M. R., Qehillat ashqelon ben ge’onut eres isra’el le-ven rashut ha-yehudim 
be-misrayim, Shalem, 3:93, 1980/81 907 

Daniel al-QumisT, The Commentary on the Book of Daniel (= TS 10 C 2) 11, 

83 

Daniel al-Qumisi, Pitron sheneym ‘dsar, ed. I. Markon et al., Jerusalem 
1958 921, 930, 935 

David Qimhi, Sefer Mikhlol, Lyck 1842 286 

Davidson, I., Ginze Schechter, vol. Ill, New York 1927/8 821 

Osar ha-shird we-ha-piyyut, New York 1924—1933 848, 867, 914, 937 

Dinur, B., Isra’el ba-gola, Tel Aviv 1961-69 85, 599, 746, 774 

Dinur (Dinaburg), B., Bet tefilla u-midrash la-yehudlm ‘al har ha-bayit, Zion 
(ha-me’assef), 3:55, 1928/9 774, 844 

Le-toledot ha-yehudim be-eres isra’el bime massa‘ ha-selav ha-ri’shon, Zion 
(ha-me’assef), 2:38, 1926/7 315, 839, 943-944, 950 

Dotan, A., Ha-omnam haya ben asher qara’I? Sinai, 41:280, 350, 1957 294 

Drori, J., Yerushalayim ba-tequfa ha-mamlukit, Peraqim be-toledot yerushalayim 
b me ha-bey nay im, ed. B. Z. Kedar, Jerusalem 1979:148 848 

Dukes, L., Quntres ha-massdret, Tubingen 1845/6 286 

El‘ad, A., ‘Are ha-hdf, Cathedra, 8:156, 1977/8 116-117 

He'arot, Mehqdrim , Haifa University, vol. V:191, 1980 302 

Massoret‘aravlt, Cathedra, 8:156, 1977/8 406, 838 

Eleazar b. Judah b. Kalonymus, Ma'ase rdqeah, Sanok 1911/2 777 

Elias of Nisibis, The Chronicle (text and translation), CSCO (Syri), vols XXI, 
XXIII 102, 417-418, 786 

Eliash, J., YedT'ot ‘al eres isra’el, Sejunot, 2:7, 1957/8 360, 829 

Eliyahu Bashiyatsi, Aderet Eliyahii, Eupatoria 1834 938 

Epstein, A., ha-Mahaloqet, Hagoren, 4:118, 1905/6 736, 784 

Epstein, J. N., Dei gaondische Kommentar zur Mischnaordnung Teharoth, Berlin 
1924 350 

Qeta'Tm hadashfm, Tarbiz, 7:283, 1935/6 919 

Even Sappir = J. Saphir’s Diary, Lyck 1866 289, 294 

Even Shemuel, J., Midreshege’ulla, Jerusalem 1953/4 76 

Fischel, W. J., Pereq mittokh ha-khronlqa..., Zion, 5:204, 1940 238, 242 

Fleischer, E., Hiddushe ha-askola. .., Ha-sijrut, 4:334, 1972/3 857 

‘Inyene piyyut we-shTra, S. Halkin Jubilee Volume, Jerusalem 1973:183 309 

‘Iyyunlm..., Sejunot, NS 1:25, 1979/80 776 

Le-zihuy ma'atlq ‘hashe’elot ha-‘atIqot, Kiryat Sefer, 55:183, 1976/80 745, 

939 

Le-sivyon ’ha-she’elot ha-‘atlqot. . ., HUCA, 38:1, 1967 (Hebrew part) 745 
Massoret yehudlt qeduma, Zion, 36:110, 1981 83 

Paytene teverya ha-qedumlm, in O. Avisar, ed., Sefer teverya, Jerusalem 
1973 287 

Qawim hadashim..., Shalem, 1:53, 1973/4 852, 885 

Shhat ha-qodesh ha-‘ivrit bime ha-beynayim, Jerusalem 1975 733 

Te‘udot sifrutiyot. . ., Zion, 49:375, 1984 784, 901 


865 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Shiv'atot hadashot. . Sinai, 61:30, 1966/7 287 

Frenkel, J., Hadlratam shel ha-badawlm le-eres isra’el, Cathedra, 11:86, 
1978/9 589, 591 

Ha-saljuqlm be-eres isra’el. Cathedra, 21:49, 1981/2 603, 609 

Friedman, M. A., Ha-ketubbot ha-eres-isre’eliyot. . ., Te'uda, 1:57, 1979/80 
931 

’Ha-sari eyn be-misrayim’. .., Dine isrd’el, 5:205, 1973/4 899 

Hilekhot Tshut, etc., Tarbiz, 50:209, 1980/81 
‘Od ‘al ‘ittur’ . . ., Tarbiz, 49:202, 1979/80 779 

Ono, yedi'ot hadashot..., in: D. Grossmann, ed., Beyn yarqdn wa-ayalon, 
Ramat Gan 1983:75 332 

Pollgamiya . . ., Tarbiz, 43:166, 1973/4 896 

Ribbiiy ndshim be-isra’el, Jerusalem 1986 285, 754 

Ribbuy nashlm be-mismekhe ha-genlza, Tarbiz, 40:320, 1980/81 823 

Shene qeta'Tm mi-sefer ha-ma‘aslm, Sinai, 74:14, 1973/4 823 

Gartner, I., Hashpa'atam... Bar Hart Univ. Annual, 20:128, 1983 826 

Geiger, A., Qevusat ma’amarim, Warsaw 1910 286 

Ge’one tnizrdh ii-ma'arav, Responsa, ed. J. Muller, reprint 1958/9 273, 739 

Gil, M., ‘Aliya wa-‘aliya la-regel, Cathedra, 8:124, 1977/8 823 

Eres isra’el.. ., Te'uda, 7:281, 1990 269, 779, 797 

Megillat evyatar. . ., Peraqtm be-toledot yerushalayim bime ha-beynayim, ed. B. Z. 
Kedar, Jerusalem 1979:39 811, 884, 890, 905 

ha-Mokher et he-haser, Tarbiz, 46:17,1976/7 843 

Le-toledot ge’one eres isra’el, Tarbiz, 44:144, 1974/5 851-852 

ha-Mifgash ha-bavli, Tarbiz, 48:35, 1978/9 241, 774, 806, 852, 870 

Mikhtav shel isra’el b. natan, Michael, 7:244, 1981/2 376, 891 

Milhemet shishshim ha-shanlm, Shalem, 3:1, 1980/81 564 

Rav aharon ga’on b. yosef, Sefunot, NS 1(16):9, 1979/80 488, 797, 853 

Shekhunot ha-yehudim blrushalayim, Shalem, 2:19, 1975/6 668, 842, 845 

ha-Tustarim, Tel Aviv 1981 78, 255, 274, 285, 350, 357-358, 364, 370, 560, 

590, 598, 609, 764, 773, 780, 803, 880, 927, 929, 931, 935, 939, 940, 947 
Ginzberg, L., Ginze Schechter, New York 1927/9 76, 808, 821, 826, 921, 932 

Goitein, S. D., ‘Al shemoteha ha'arviylm shel yerushalayim, J. L. ZlotnickJubilee 
Volume, Jerusalem 1950:62 125 

Arba‘ ketubbot, Leshonenu, 30:197, 1965/6 123, 775 

Batte yehudlm be-‘arim damesseq we-sor, Eretz-Israel, 8:288, 1966/7 903 

Bet ha-keneset we-siyyudo, Eretz-Israel, 7:81, 1963/4 769 

DanI’el b. ‘azarya, nasi we-ga’on, Shalem, 2:41, 1975/6 738, 773-774, 779, 

801-802, 809, 822, 857, 885-886, 889, 893, 896, 905 

ha-Hitmodedut beyn bet-ha-keneset le-veyn ha-qehilla, H. Schirmann Jubilee 
Volume, Jerusalem 1970:69 767 

Ha-omnam asar ha-khalifa ‘umar ‘al ha-yehudim la-shevet blrushalayim, Me- 
lila, 3-4:156, 1949/50 69 

Iggeret labrat b. moshe, Tarbiz, 36:59, 1966/7 376, 879 

Kitab dhimmat al-nabl, Kiryat Sefer, 9:507, 1931/33 255 


866 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Le-toledot ha-ge onut, Shalem, 1:15, 1973/4 742, 753, 793, 802, 857, 859, 

862 

Ma‘ase bet-din, Eretz Israel, 12:200, 1974/5 311 

Meqorot hadashlm al goral ha-yehudlm, Zion , 17:129, 1952 943, 947 

MikhtavTm me-eres isra’el, Yerushalayim, 1955:54 943 

Mishar ha-yehudlm ba-yam ha-tlkhon, Tarbiz, 36:366, 1966/7 339 

‘Olalot..., Tarbiz, 38:18, 1968/9 856 

Pe'ulato ha-sibburlt shel r. elhanan b. shemarya, J. Finkel Jubilee Volume, New 
York 1974 (Hebrew part): 117 252,795,796,798 

Pidyon shevuya be-nabulus ..., Tarbiz, 31:287, 1961/2 949 

Qedushatah shel eres-isra’el ba-hasldut ha-muslimlt, BJPES, 12:120, 1945/6 
109, 181, 389 

Ha-rav, berur parasha setuma, Tarbiz, 45:64, 1975/6 374, 378, 861, 864 

Rosh yeshlvat eres-isra’el. .., Eretz-Israel, 10:100, 1970/71 877 

Sawwa’ot mi-misrayim, Sejunot, 8:107, 1963/4 598, 835 

Shalosh iggarot, Tarbiz, 34:162, 1964/5 835, 856 

Shemarya birrabl elhanan, Tarbiz, 32:266, 1962/3 795, 798 

YedPot hadashot ‘al eres isra’el, Eretz-Israel, 4:147, 1955/6 328, 943, 946 

Yedi'ot hadashot ‘al neglde qayrawan, Zion, 27:11, 1962 809 

Yerushalayim ba-tequfa ha-‘aravlt, Yerushalayim, 4:82, 1952/3 66, 69, 105, 

157, 414, 456, 624 

ha-Yishuv be-eres isra’el. . ., Jerusalem 1979/80 66, 311, 609, 624—626, 634, 

773-774, 779, 793, 822, 856, 859, 885-886, 889, 893-894, 896, 905, 946-947, 949 
Golb, N., Ger sedeq she-barah le-misrayim, Sejimot, 8:85, 1963/4 278 

Megillat ‘dvadya ha-ger, S. D. Goitein Jubilee Volume, Jerusalem 1981:77 
328, 950 

Toledot ha-yehudlm ba'ir Rouen bme ha-beynayim, Tel Aviv 1976 111 

Grabois, A., ha-Salyanut ha-noserit.. ., Ha-yam ha-tlkhon u-meqomo. . ., (kenes 
ha-hevra ha-historlt), Jerusalem 1969/70:68 719 

Graetz, H. H., Divre yeme isra’et (transl. S. P. Rabbinowitz), Warsaw 1890 et 
sqq. 76, 119, 728, 732 

Grossman, A., ha-‘Aliya le-eres-isra’el, Cathedra, 8:136, 1977/8 821, 827 

Hakhme ashkendz ha-ri’shontm, Jerusalem 1981 111 

Zlqatah shel yahadut ashkenaz. .., Shalem, 3:57, 1980/81 574, 111 

Guttmann, J., Ha-fildsojya shel ha-yahadut, Jerusalem 1951 940 

Habermann, A. M., Qerova le-hanukka, Sinai, 53:183, 1962/3 810, 867 

Hadasl, Judah, Eshkol ha-kofer, Goslow 1836 286 

Halper, B., ‘Alim ballm (v), Hatequja, 20:261, 1922/3 786 

Ha-yehudlm tahat shilton ha-khallfim ha-fatimiylm, Hatequja, 18:175, 
1922/3 560, 779, 808, 857, 860 

Harkavy, A., Divre avraham, Hamagid, 21:134, 1877 301 

Hadashlm gam yeshdnlm, reprint, Jerusalem 1969/70 289, 309, 927 

He‘arot umillu’Im, in: Gratz, Divre yeme isra’el (transl. S. P. Rabbinowitz), vol. 
Ill 917, 919 


867 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 

Me’assef niddahirn, reprint, Jerusalem 1969/70 83, 87, 824, 826, 832, 834, 

837, 924, 935 

Teshiivot ha-ge’dntm ( Responsa ), Berlin 1887 34, 273, 728, 770, 800, 908 

Zikkaron la-ri’shonim , V, Berlin 1891 286 

Zikkaron la-ri’shomm , VIII, Petersburg 1903 286 

Hecker, M., Haspaqat mayim .. ., Sefer Yentshalayim, 1:191, 1955/6 847 

Hayy Gaon, Sefer ha-meqqah we-ha-mimkar, Venice 1602 897 

Heilprin, Y., Seder ha-dorot, Warsaw 1877 325 

Heinemann, j., Yahaso shel rav Se'adya ga’on ..., Bar-Ilan Univ. Annual, 1 ( = P. 

Churgin Memorial Volume): 220, 1962/3 820 

Hirschberg, H. Z., ‘A1 r. zekharya aghmati, Tarbiz, 42:379, 1972/3 835 

‘Arkha’ot shel goylm..., I. Herzog Memorial Volume , Jerusalem 
1961/2:493 273 

‘Inyene har ha-zeytim, BJPES, 13:156, 1946/7 246, 771, 831, 840 

‘Iqevot ha-mashlah be-eres ‘arav, Vienna Rabbinical Seminary Memorial Volume, 
Jerusalem 1946:112 730 

Isra'el ba-'arav, Tel Aviv 1946 38, 730 

Qehillot isra’el. . Sinai Jubilee Volume, Jerusalem 1958:344 827 

Ha-qesharlm beyn yehude ha-maghrib. . Eretz-Israel, 5:213, 1958/9 342, 

350, 795, 828 

Hirschman, M., Sha'ar ha-kohen . . ., Tarbiz, 55:217, 1985/6 840 

Horowitz, H, M., Bet ‘eqed ha-agadot, Frankfurt 1881 76 

Ishaq Ibn Ghayyath, Sha'are simhz, Fiirth 1860/62 739 

Ibn al-HIti, The Chronicle, ed. G. Margoliouth, Arabic Chronicles, JQR, 9:429, 
1897 917, 923, 940 

Ish Shalom, M,, ‘A1 yishshuve ha-shefela, in: Hafirot u-mehqartm, Tel Aviv 
1973 116 

Masse'e ndserim, Tel Aviv 1966 664 

Iso‘yahb Patriarchae III Liber epistularum, CSCO (Syri). ser. 2. t. 64, ed. R. Duval, 
Leipzig 1905 679 

Jellinek, A., Bet ha-midrdsh, Leipzig 1853/7 76, 84, 103, 119, 412 

Jonah Ibn Janah, Sefer ha-riqma, (1) ed. J. Derenbourg, Paris 1886, (2) ed. M. 
Wilensky and D. Tenne, Jerusalem 1964 293, 829 

Sefer ha-shorashim, ed. A. Neubauer, reprint, Amsterdam 1968 338, 346, 

350, 368 

Joseph b. Judah Ibn ‘Aqnln, Perush shir ha-shmm, ed. A. S. Halkin, Jerusalem 
1964 776 

Judah al-Harizi, Tahkemoni, ed. J. Toporowski, Tel Aviv 1952 330 

Karmon, Y., ha-Tena’Tm ha-fisiyografiyim. . ., BJPES, 23:111, 1958/9 275 

Kedar, B. Z., I.e-toledot ha-yishuv ha-yehudl be-eres isra’el bime ha-beynayim, 
Tarbiz, 42:401, 1972/3 309, 564, 947 

ha-Yishuv ha-yehudi birushalayim. .., Tarbiz, 41:82, 1971/2 835 

Ketava de-himyare, ed. A. Moberg, Lund 1924 730 

Kirchheim, R., Sefer ketav tamim. Osar nehmad, 3:54, 1859/60 634 

Kister, M. J. andM., ‘A1 yehude ‘arav, Tarbiz, 48:231, 1978/9 295 

Klar, B., Ben-asher, Tarbiz, 14:156, 1942/3; 15:36, 1943/4 734, 745, 919, 933 

Mehqarim we-'iyymtm, Tel Aviv 1954 291, 294, 852 


868 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Klein, S., Asiya (‘asiya ),J. Freimatui Jubilee Volume, Berlin 1937:116 2 

Kochavi, M., ed., Yehuda shomron we-golan, Jerusalem 1972 275 

Kook, S. H., Merkaz qara’I biltl yadu‘a, Ginze qedem, 4:107, 1929/30 936 

Krauss, S., ha-Tehuqqa ha-noserit.. Melila, 3-4:17, 1949/50 269 

Wikkuah dati.. Zion (ha-me’assef), 2:28, 1926/7 52, 731 

Lazarus-Yafeh, H., Abu hamid al-ghazali, ha-pode. .., Tel Aviv 1965 633 

Beyn halakha ba-yahadut la-halakha ba-islam, Tarbiz, 51:207, 1981/2 246 

Qedushat yerushalayim. . ,,J. Herzog Memorial Volume, Jerusalem 1979 109 

Levi (Abu Sa‘Id) b. Yefet ha-Levi, Sefer ha-miswot, MS Leiden 4760 (Cat. Warner 
no. 22) 925, 928-930 

Lewin, B. M., Essa meshalT, Sefer rav se'adya ga’on, Jerusalem 1942:481 294 

Ma'aslm livne eres isra’el, Tarbiz, 1(1):79, 1929/30 367 

Mi-serlde ha-genlza, Tarbiz, 2:383, 1930/31 728, 821 

Teshuvot anshe eres isra’el, Ginze qedem, 4:50, 1929/30 736, 828, 854 

Lewin B. M. (ed.), Osar hilluf minhdglm, Jerusalem 1944 739 

Linder, A., Yerushalayim ke-mdqed shel ‘immut, Peraqim be-toledot yerushalayim 
btme ha-beynayim, ed. B. Z. Kedar, Jerusalem 1979 665, 700 

Loewenstamm, A., ha-Qara’Iyeshu'a bar yehuda, Tarbiz, 41:183, 1971/2 940 

Luncz, A. M., Kotel ha-ma‘aravl, Yerushalayim (Luncz), 10:1, 1913/14 840 

Mahler, R., ha-Qara’tm, Merhavia 1949 919, 935 

Mahzdr witri, ed. S. Hurwitz, reprint, Jerusalem 1963 733, 777 

Mann, J., ‘Inyanlm shonlm. . ., Tarbiz, 5:148, 1933/4 741 

Misrat rosh ha-gola we-hista‘afutah, S. Poznanski Memorial Volume, Warsaw 
1927 (Hebrew part): 18 773, 885 

Ha-tenu‘ot ha-meshlhiyot..., Hatequfa, 24:335, 1925/6 300, 916 

Margaliot, M., Hilekhot eres isra’el min ha-geniza, Jerusalem 1974 331, 821 

Ha-hilluqim . . ..Jerusalem 1938 739 

Li-qevi‘at zemano shel ra'ash shevflt, BJPES, 8:97, 1980/81 102 

Te‘uda hadasha ‘al som ha-ra‘ash, Tarbiz, 29:339, 1959/60 102 

Marmorstein, A., Derashot dam’el al-qumisl, Zion (ha-me’assef), 3:26, 
1928/9 807, 826, 933 

Marmorstein, A., ed. Midrash haserol wlterol, London 1917 807 

Mayer, L. A., ‘Emdat ha-yehudim bime ha-mamluklm, J. L. Magnes Jubilee 
Volume, Jerusalem 1938 238 

Ketovot yehudiyot, Zion (ha-me’assef), 3:22, 1928/9 839 

As-sinnabra, Eretz-Israel, 1:169, 1980/81 92 

Megillat Alffma'as, see A him a‘as 

Michael the Syrian, The Chronicle, ed. J. B. Chabot, Paris 1899-1910 5, 50, 69, 

87-88, 97, 102, 333, 414, 550, 678, 919 

Michaeli, M. A., Arkhiyono shel Nahrai b. Nissim. . ., (PhD dissertation), the 
Hebrew Univ., Jerusalem 1968 371, 372 

Moses Maimonides, Responsa, ed. J. Blau, Jerusalem 1957/61 835, 912 

Sharh asma’ al-uqqar, ed. M. Meyerhof, Cairo 1940 337, 346, 353 

Moses Ibn Ezra, Kitab al-muhddara wa’l-mudhdkara, ed. A. S. Halkin, Jerusalem 
1975 892 


869 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Nathan b. Abraham, Periish la-mishna (ascribed to him), suppl. to the mishtta 
edition, el-ha-meqorot, Jerusalem 1955 337, 353, 884 

Neubauer, A., Mediaeval Jewish Chronicles, Oxford 1888-93 728-729, 732, 

741-742, 773, 849, 859-860, 929 

Neubauer, A., ed. The Tolida (Chronique samaritaine), Paris 1873 10, 116, 941 

Osar ha-ge’onttn, ed. B. M. Lewin, Haifa 1928 et sqq. 123, 273, 350, 735, 739, 
741, 111, 835 

Ha-Pardes (ascribed to Rashi), ed. Ehrenreich, Budapest 1924 111 

Pinkerfeld, J., Bet ha-keneset la-‘adat ha-qara’Im blrushalayim, A. M. Luncz 
Memorial Volume, Jerusalem 1928:205 936 

Pinsker, S., Liqqute qadmoniyot, Vienna 1860 125, 263, 286, 741, 786, 824—825, 

829, 842. 848, 852, 917, 924, 925, 928, 930-933, 935, 937 
Pirqe r. elVezer, ed. M. Higger, Horen, 8:82; 9:94; 10:185, 1943/48 739, 784 

Pitron tdrd, ed. E. E. Urbach, Jerusalem 1978 293 

Poliak, A., Even shedya, B. Dinaburg (Dinur) Jubilee Volume, Jerusalem 
1949:165 105, 418 

Mosa’am shel ‘arviye ha-ares, Molad, 24:297, 1966/8 334 
Ha-yehudlm u-vet ha-mitba‘ot be-misrayim, Zion, 1:24, 1936 746 

Poznanski, S., Anshe qayrawan, A. Harkavy Presentation Volume, Petersburg 
1909:175 347, 376, 741, 871, 912 

‘Inyanlm shonlm. . ., Hakedem, 1:133, 1906-1908; 2:24, 29, 1907/8 763 

Reshit hityashvut ha-qara’Im blrushalayim, Yerushalayim (Luncz), 10:83, 
1913/4 825, 848, 923-924, 936, 938 

Salmon ben yeruham. Encyclopaedia Osar isrd’el, VII:208 923 

Tuviyahu ben moshe ha-ma‘atlq, Encyclopaedia Osar isrd’el, V:12 938 

Prawer, J., Ha-autobiyografiya shel ‘ovadya ha-ger ha-normanl, Tarbiz, 45:272, 
1975/6 727 

Gilgule ha-shekhuna ha-yehudit, Zion, 12:136, 1947 839, 841, 848 

ha-Salvantm, Jerusalem 1975 360, 677, 947 

Toledot mamlekhet ha-salvdnim 3 , Jerusalem 1971 276, 328, 553, 943-944 

ha-Yehudlm be-malkhut yerushalayim ha-salvanlt, Zion, 11:38, 1946 315, 

839 

Yerushalayim bi-tefisat ha-nasrut we-ha-yahadut blme ha-beynayim ha-muq- 
damim. Cathedra, 17:40, 1980/81 81 

al-Qirqisanl, Ya‘qub, Kitab al-anwdr wa’l maraqib, ed. L. Nemoy, New York 
1939/43 76, 287, 291, 367, 740, 826, 917, 919, 928-930, 931 

Rapoport, S., He‘ara gedola.. ., Kerem hemed, 4:204, 1838/9 728 

Razhabi, J., Gimel piyyutxm le-rabbx dawld ben nasi, Tarbiz, 14:204, 
1942/3 914 

Saadia Gaon, Commentary on the Book of Isaiah, ed. J. Derenbourg, reprint, in: 
Qoves permitun, Jerusalem 1981, I 820 
The Siddur, ed. I. Davidson et al., Jerusalem 1981 820 

Ha-egron, ed. N. Allony, Jerusalem 1969 287 

Safrai, S., ha'Aliya la-regel. .., PerdqTm be-tbleddt yerushalayim btme bayit shent, ed. 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


A. Oppenheimer et al. ( = A. Schalit Memorial Volume) Jerusalem 
1981:376 81 

Sahl b. Masllah, Introduction to Sefer ha-misw5t, ed. A. Harkavy, Ha-melis 
1879 = Me’assef niddahim No. 13 81, 83, 87 

Salmon Ben Yeruhim, Commentary on the Book of Lamentations, (1) ed. S. Feuer- 
stein, Krakau 1898; (2) MS Paris, Bibliotheque nationale, 295 86, 825, 837, 

829, 934 

Commentary on the Book of Psalms, ed. L. Marwick, Philadelphia 1956 123, 

252, 728, 825, 919, 934-935 

Commentary on the Book ofQohelet, MS BM Or 2517 311, 825, 837 

Sefer milhamot, ed. I. Davidson, New York 1934 825, 923, 928 

al-Sam‘anT = J. S. Assemani, Bibliotheca Orientalis, Roma 1719-28 679 

Samuel Ibn Naghrila, ha-Nagid, The Diwdn (1) ed. D. S. Sassoon, London 1934; 

(2) ed. D. Yarden, Jerusalem 1966 773-774, 892 

Schechter, S., ed. Saadyana, Cambridge 1903 298, 793, 852, 859, 902, 908, 933 

Genizah Manuscripts, Festschrift A. Berliner, Frankfurt am Main, 
1903:108 773 

Scheiber, A., Iggarto shel eliyahu ha-kohen, Tarbiz, 32:273, 1962/3 380 

Leaves from she’elot ‘atiqot, HUCA, 27:291, 1956 745, 827 

Li-fe‘Iluto shel tuviya ha-qara’T, Kiryat Sefer, 55:791, 1979/80 939 

Shir tehilla..., Sejunot, NS 1:59, 1979/80 298 

Schirmann, H., Shir ‘al mesuqatan shel qehillot, Yedi'ot ha-makhon la-heqer ha-sliira 
ha'writ, 7:157, 1957/8 564 

Shirim hadashim min ha-geniza, Jerusalem 1966 808, 857 

Schwabe, M., Ha-yehudlm we-har ha-bayit, Zion (ha-me'assef), 2:90, 
1926/7 87 

Sefer ha-eshkol (of Abraham b. Isaac of Narbonne), Halberstadt 1868 763 

Sefer ha-hasidim, ed. J. Wistinetzki, Frankfurt 1924 353, 561, 828 

Sefer ha-yishuv, ed. S. Assaf and L. A. Mayer, Jerusalem 1944 70, 102, 284, 

330-331, 599, 780, 827, 829, 835, 925, 936 
Semah, M., Batte ha-keneset be-misrayim, Mizrah u-ma'ardv, 1:358, 
1919/20 331 

Sha'are sedeq (Responsa), ed. H. Moda‘I, Salonica 1792 273, 823 

Sha‘are teshuva (Responsa), New York 1946 917 

Sharon, M., Shabbat ha-gadol. . ., Shalem, 1:1, 1973/4 282 

Sherira Gaon, The Letter, (1) ed. A. Neubauer, Mediaeval Jewish Chronicles, I; (2) 
ed. B. M. Lewin, Haifa 1921 773, 789, 821, 852, 917, 919 

Siddiir ha-tefilldt ke-minhag ha-qara’tm, Wilno 1890/92 917 

Skoss, S. L., Li-qevl‘at..., Tarbiz, 2:510, 1930/31 940 

Slouschz, N., ha-Hafirot. . ., Qoves (JPES), I (2):5, 1924/5 668 

Solomon ben ha-yatom, Perush massekhet mashqin, ed. H. P. Chajes, Berlin 
1910 346, 773, 835 

Spiegel, S., Le-farashat ha-pulmus, Wolfson Jubilee Volume, Jerusalem 
1965:243 821 

Starr, J., Le-toledot nehoray b. nisslm, Zion, 1:436, 1936 376 


871 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Stern, ML, Memorbuch ha-yashan. .., A. Berliner Jubilee Volume, Berlin 
1903:113 733 

Stem, S. M., Qeta‘ hadash mi-sefer ha-galuy, Melila, 5:133, 1954/5 797 

Ta'am zeqenim (ed. E. Ashkenazi), Frankfurt 1915 741 

Tanhum Ha-yerushalml, Commentary on the Book of Joshua, ed. T. Haarbriicker, 
Berlin 1862 330 

Toledano, J. M., Mi-seride ha-geniza be-misrayim, Mizrah u-ma‘arav, 1:344, 
1919/20 805, 813 

Urbach, E. E., Midrash ge’ula, Eretz Israel, 10:58, 1970/71 76 

Vajda, G., Shene qissurim..., D. H. Baneth Memorial Volume, Jerusalem 
1979 938 

Vilnay, Z., Shemot ‘arviylm..., Zion, 5:73, 1940 123, 125, 330, 839 

Wertheimer, S., Batte midrashot, Jerusalem 1894, 1953, 1968 104, 412, 596 

Ginze yerushalayim, II, 1901; III, 1902 950 

Yaari, A., Iggerot eres isra’el, Ramat Gan 1971 846 

Yefet b. ‘All, Commentary on the Book of Daniel, ed. D. S. Margoliouth, Oxford 
1889 60, 933, 937 

Commentary on the Book of Nahum, ed. H. Hirschfeld, London 1911 481, 920 

Commentary on Psalms, MS Paris, Bibl. nat., 286-289 275, 551, 824, 837, 

842, 934 

Commentary on the Song of Solomon, MS BM Or 2520, 2554 826, 920, 

925, 934 

Yehuda, Y., Ha-kotel ha-ma‘aravi, Zion (ha-me’assef), 3:95, 1928/9 840, 844 

Yellin, A., Mi-ginze bet ha-sefarim, Kiryat Sefer, 1:55, 1923/4 936 

Zohary, M., ‘Olam ha-semahim, Tel Aviv 1963 346, 353 

Zucker, M., ‘Al targum rasag la-tora, New York 1959 917-918, 921, 928 

Mi-perusho shel rasag la-tora, Sura, 2:313, 1954/7 918 

Neged mi katav rav se'adya ga’on et ha-piyyut essa meshall? Tarbiz, 27:61, 
1957/8 294 

Teguvot li-tenu‘at avele siyon, H. Albeck Jubilee Volume, Jerusalem 
1963:378 827, 921, 933 

Zulay, M., Eres isra’el we-‘aliyat regalim. . ., Yerushalayim, 1:51, 1952/3 287, 

311 

Le-toledot ha-piyyut be-eres isra’el, Yedi'ot ha-makhon le-heqer ha-shtra ha-‘ivnt, 
5:107, 1938/9 309, 851 

Maqdr we-hiqquy ba-piyyut, Sinai, 25:32, 1948/9 867 

Piyyutim le-zekher me’ora'ot shonim, Yedi'ot ha-makhon le-heqer ha-shird ha- 

'ivrit, 3:153, 1936/7 102, 309, 564 


Arabic, Persian 

‘Abd al-Jabbar b. Ahmad al-Asadabadi, Sharh al-usiil al-khamsa, Cairo 1960 76 

Tathbtt dala’il al-mubuwwa, Beirut 1386 63, 465, 482, 702 

‘Abd al-Latif al-Baghdadi, Muwaffaq al-Din, Kitab al-ijada wa’l-i'tibdr, ed. Sil- 
vestre de Sacy, Paris 1810 561 


872 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


al-‘Abdarf, Muhammad b. Muhammad, al-Rihla al-maghribiyya, Rabat 1968 
304 

Abu’l-Fida’, ‘Imad al-DIn Isma‘11 b. ‘All, al-Mukhtasar Jt akhbar al-bashar, Cairo 
1325 64, 81, 98-99, 125, 232, 388, 393, 422, 424, 460, 463-464, 473-474, 

522, 545, 548, 550, 552-553, 557-558, 560, 592, 918, 941 
Abu Nu‘aym al-Isbahanl, Ahmad b. ‘Abdallah, Akhbar isbahdtt, Leiden 
1931/4 492,513 

Hilyat al-awliya’, Beirut 1387 162, 181 

Abu Salih al-Armani, Kitdb al-diyarat, ed. Butler, Oxford 1895 561 

Abu Shuja', Muhammad b. al-Husayn al-Rudhdrawari, Dhayl tajdrib al-umam , in 
The Eclipse of the 'Abbdsid Caliphate, H. F. AmedrozandD. S. Margolioutheds., 
Oxford 1920/21, Vol. Ill 549, 560, 563-564, 577 
Abu’l-Su‘ud b. Muhammad al-‘Imadi, Tafsir, Riyad 1974 843 

Abu ‘Ubayd, al-Qasim b. Sallam, Kitdb al-amwdl, Cairo 1353 36, 64, 81, 86 

Abu ‘Ubayda, Ma‘mar b. al-Muthanna, Majaz al-qur’dtt, Cairo 1954/5 843 

Abu Yusuf, Ya'qub b. Ibrahim al-Ansar! al-Kufi, Kitdb al-kharaj, Cairo 
1346 60, 224-225, 267, 269 

Abu Zur'a, ‘Abd al-Rahman b. ‘Abdallah al-Dimashql, Ta’rikh, MS Muhammad 
Fatik (Istanbul) no. 4210, in: L. Mansur (MA thesis), Bar-Ilan Univ. 
1976 64, 150, 153, 165 

Agapius, see Mahbub 

al-‘Ajluni, Isma‘11 b. Muhammad, Kashf al-khaja’ wa-muzil al-ilbds, Cairo 
1351/2 111,226,284 

Akhbar al-dawla al-'abbasiyya, Beirut 1971 95, 100, 137 

‘Arlb b. Sa‘d al-Qurtubl, Silat ta’rikh al-tabari, Leiden 1897 468, 473 

‘Arif al-‘Arif, al-Mujaz ft ta’rikh 'asqalan, Jerusalem 1362 304 

al-Azdl, Yazld b. Muhammad, Ta’rikh al-Mawpl, Cairo 1967 418 

al-‘AzimI: C. Cahen, La chronique abregee d’al-'AzIml, JA, 230:353, 

1938 602-603, 606-608, 610-611, 727 

al-‘Az!zi, ‘All b. Aljmad, al-Sirdj al-munir, Cairo 1957 63, 80, 107, 111, 113, 

116, 226, 228-229, 236, 259, 346 

al-Azraqi, Muhammad b. ‘Abd Allah, Akhbar makka, ed. F. Wiistenfeld, Leipzig 
1858 2 

al-Badri, ‘Abd Allah b. Muhammad al-Misrl al-Dimashql, Nuzhat al-dnam Jt 
mahasin al-sham, Cairo 1341 58, 123, 269 

al-Bakrl, ‘Abd Allah b. ‘Abd al-‘AzIz, Mu'jam ma’sta'jama, ed. al-Saqqa’, Cairo 
1959 81, 122, 125, 201, 337 

al-Baladhuri, Ahmad b. Yahya, Ansab al-ashraf I, ed. M. Hamidullah, Cairo 1959; 
IV (A) ed. M. Schloessinger, revised by M.J. Kister, Jerusalem 1971; IV (B) ed. 
M. Schloessinger, Jerusalem 1939; V ed. S. D. Goitein, Jerusalem 1936 18, 

44, 81, 94, 126, 129, 141, 157-158, 161, 179, 182, 266 
al-Baladhuri, Ahmad b. Yahya, Futuh al-buldan, Leiden 1866 36,38, 44—45, 49, 

50, 54-55, 57-62, 64-66, 69, 71-74, 93, 99, 116-117, 122, 236, 238, 240-241, 
243, 269-270, 411, 941 


873 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


al-Banna’, Abu ‘All al-Hasan b. Ahmad, Autograph Diary of Baghdad, ed. G. 

Makdisi, BSOAS, 18, 19 (1956, 1957) 109, 602 

al-Barghuti, al-Waztr al-yazuri, Cairo n.d. 598 

Baybars al-Mansuri, Rukn al-Din, Zubdat al-fikra fi ta’rikh al-hijra, MS Bodl 
Hunt 198 476-477, 481, 552, 559, 562, 566 

al-Bayhaqi, ‘Al! b. Zayd, Ta’rikh hukama’ al-islam, Damascus 1360 478, 701 

al-BIruni, Muhammad b. Ahmad, al-Athar al-baqiya 'art al-qurun al-khaliya, ed. E. 

Sachau, Leipzig 1927 77, 80, 109, 352, 700, 832, 918-919, 929, 941 

al-Bukharf, Muhammad b. Isma'il, al-Adab al-mufiad, Cairo 1349 226 

Sahth, quoted by chapters 46 

al-Ta’rikh al-kabir, Haydarabad 1941 189, 190, 199, 200 

al-Buraql, al-Husayn b. Ahmad al-Najafi, Ta’rikh al-kufa, Najaf 1968 109, 

227, 241 

al-Bustl, Ibn Hibban Muhammad, Mashahir ‘ulamd’ al-amsdr, Cairo 1379 141, 

142, 155, 164, 176-177, 179, 184, 190-191, 194, 201, 389, 400 
Cheikho, L., al-Nar al-‘ajlba fi’l-qabr al-muqaddas, al-Mashriq, 16:188, 
1913 701 

Dahlan, Ahmad b. Zaynl, al-Sira al-nabawiyya, on margin of Halabf s Insan al- 
‘uyurt, Cairo 1320 38 

al-Damiri, Muhammad b. Musa, Hayat al-hayawan al-kubrd, Cairo 1383 92 

al-Dhahabl, Muhammad b. Ahmad, al-‘Ayn, MS Bodl Digby Or 15 482 

Duwal al-islam, Haydarabad 1919 513, 549, 555, 563, 602 

al-‘Ibarfi khabar manghabar, Kuwayt 1960 94, 163, 170, 174, 388, 389, 407, 

408, 409, 428, 434, 439, 443, 445, 454, 460, 464, 475, 477, 491-492, 511, 513, 
516, 522, 524, 529, 553, 569, 580, 602, 603, 624, 654-656, 836, 943-944 
Mtzdn al-i'tidal, Cairo 1963 236, 510, 511, 513, 527 

Siyara'lam al-nubala’, Cairo 1956 88, 92, 102, 141, 156, 158, 161 

Tadhkirat al-htffiz, Beirut 1969 (reprint of Haydarabad edition) 629-631, 
635, 643, 653, 656 

Ta’rikh al-islam wa-tabaqat al-mashahir wa’I-a‘lam (1) Cairo 1367/9; (2) MS Paris, 
Bibliotheque nationale fonds arabe 1581 36, 54, 57, 59, 65, 81, 97-99, 

101-102, 141-142, 146, 150, 152-153, 155, 158, 160, 164-165, 171-172, 174, 
184, 186-187, 189-192, 195, 197-201, 241, 334, 389, 417, 488, 577, 821 
al- ‘Uluw id-’aHal-ghajfar, ai-Madina 1968 492, 624 

al-DitnashqT,Muhammad b. AbTTalib, Nukhbat al-dahrfi 'aja’ib al-barr wa’l-bahr, 
ed. A. F. Mehren, Petrograd 1866 116, 123, 941 

al-Dinawarl, Ahmad b. Da’ud, al-Akhbar al-tiwal, Cairo 1960 24, 88, 95, 131, 

147-148, 230 

al-Diyarbakri, al-Husayn b. Muhammad, Ta’rikh al-khamis fi ahwal anfas nafis, 
Cairo 1302 36 

al-FasI, Muhammad b. Ahmad, al- ‘Iqd al-thamitt fi ta’rikh al-balad al-amin, Cairo 
1965 577 

Shijd’ al-ghardm bi-akhbdr al-balad al-haram, Cairo 1956 577 


874 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


al-Firuzabadi, Majd al-DIn Muhammad b. Ya'qub, al-Qamiis al-muhit, Cairo 
1371 99 

Futuh al-sham (ascribed to al-Waqidi), Beirut 1966 61, 65-66, 69, 81, 116 

al-Ghafiqi, Ahmad b. Muhammad, al-Jami' fi’l-tibb fi’l-adwiya al-mujrada, ed. M. 

Meyerhof and G. P. Sobhy, Cairo 1937 346 

al-Ghazali, Muhammad b, Muhammad, al-Munqidh min al-daldl, Cairo 
1973 314 

Ghazi Ibn al-Wasiti, Radd ‘ala ahl al-dhimma, ed. R. Gottheil, JAOS, 41:389, 
1921 270,569 

al-Halabi, Nur al-DIn b. ‘All, Insan al-'uyun ft shat al-amin al-ma’miin, Cairo 
1320 38, 79, 201 

al-Hamdani, Sifatjazirat al-‘arab, Leiden 1884/91 21 

al-Hamadhani, Ahmad b. ‘Abd al-Malik, Takmilat ta’rikh al-tabari, Beirut 
1961 475-476, 482, 552 

Hammam b. Munabbih, Sahifa (3), ed. M. Hamidullah, RAAD, 28:443, 
1953 843 

al-Harawi, ‘All b. Abi Bakr, al-Ishdrat ila ma'rifat al-ziyarat, ed. J. Sourdel Tho- 
mine, Damascus 1953 304, 668 

Hasan, I. H., Ta’rikh al-islam al-siyasi wa’l-dini wa’l-thaqafi wa’l-ijtima'i, Cairo 
1964/8 422 

Hassan b. Thabit. al-Diwan, London 1971 232 

Hilal al-Sabf, Kitab al-wuzara ’, ed. H. F. Amedroz, Leiden 1904 357, 470 

al-Himyari, Ibn ‘Abd al-Mun‘im, al-Rawd al-mi‘tar fi khabar al-aqtar, ed. S. K. 

Hamarneh, Folia Orientalia, 11:145, 1969 69, 81, 86 

Ibn ‘Abd al-Barr al-QurfubT, Yusuf b. ‘Abdallah, al-Intiqa’ Jt fada’il al-thalatha 
al-a’imma al-Juqaha’, Cairo 1350 451 

Ibn ‘Abd al-Barr al-Qurtubi, Yusufb. ‘Abdallah, al-Istl'abfima'rifatal-a&ab, Cairo 
1957 54, 169-170, 232 

Ibn ‘Abd al-Hakam, ‘Abd al-Rahman, Futuh misr, Leiden 1920 72, 235, 239, 

242, 255, 268 

Ibn ‘Abd Rabbihi, Ahmad b. Muhammad, al-'lqd al-fartd , Cairo 1953/65 100, 

115, 122, 842-843 

Ibn Abl’l-Hadld, Shark nahj al-balagha, Beirut 1963 88, 93, 131 

Ibn Abi Shayba, Abu Bakr ‘Abdallah b. Muhammad, al-Musannaf fi’l-ahadith 
wa’l-athar , Haydarabad 1967/71 224, 236, 246 

Ibn AbT Usaybi'a, Ahmad b. al-Qasim, 'Uyun al-anbd’fi tabaqat al-atibbd’, Cairo 
1882 556, 702, 720 

Ibn Abi Ya‘la, Muhammad b. ‘Umar al-Farra', Tabaqat al-hanabila, Cairo 
1952 433, 492, 625 

Ibn al-‘AdIm, Kamal al-Din Abu’l-Qasim ‘Umar, Zubdat al-halab fi ta’rikh halab, 
Damascus 1951/4 101, 115, 300, 460, 476-477, 482, 548, 553, 560, 564, 567, 

585, 592, 603, 610 

Bughyat al-talab fi ta’rikh halab, ed. ‘Ali Suwaym, Ankara 1976 606 


875 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Ibn al-‘Arabi, Abu Bakr Muhammad b. ‘Abdallah, al-Rihla, ed. I. ‘Abbas, al- 
Abhdth 21:59, 1968 276, 314, 609, 623-624, 627, 629, 632, 918 

Ibn al-‘Arabi, Muhammad b. ‘All, Muhadarat al-abrar wa-musdmarat al-akhyar, 
Cairo 1388 104, 843 

Ibn ‘Asakir, ‘All b. al-Hasan, Ta’nkh madinat dimashq, vols. I and II ed. Salah 
al-DIn al-Munajjid, Damascus 1951 et sqq.\ the other vols: ed. Badran 
( al-Ta’rikh al-kahtr), Damascus 1329 et sqq. 10, 15, 36, 44, 54, 57, 59, 61, 
63, 66, 69, 71, 80-81, 88-89, 93-94, 97, 99, 101, 109, 111, 113, 116, 125, 
128, 130, 134, 139, 141, 153, 155-156, 161, 166-167, 170-171, 179-180, 185, 
187, 193, 201, 225, 231, 238, 240, 265, 268-269, 276, 282, 388-389, 391, 
393, 408, 423, 431, 433, 437, 443, 481, 492, 494, 501, 511, 515, 526, 533, 548, 

550, 553, 558-559, 562, 603, 606, 622, 635, 640, 644, 648, 650, 658, 659, 660, 

704, 836, 941 

Ibn A‘tham al-Kufi, Ahmad, Kitdb al-jutiih, Haydarabad 1968 69 

Ibn al-Athir, ‘All b. Muhammad, al-Kdmil fi'l-ta’rtkh , Beirut 1965 36, 53, 63, 

65, 69, 73, 80, 88-89, 93, 98-101, 115, 119, 121, 130, 149, 153, 155, 158, 163, 

168, 176-177, 179, 184, 188, 191, 235, 241, 269, 288, 376, 384, 387, 388-389, 

393-394, 399, 410-411, 414-420, 422, 424, 439, 456-457, 460-461, 468, 469, 
472, 475-476, 482, 488, 491, 496, 545, 550, 552-553, 555, 557-561, 564-565, 
569, 571, 580, 592, 59S-597, 600, 602-603, 605, 607, 610-611, 624, 635, 642, 
654, 700, 882, 943 

al-Lubdb ft tahdhtb at-ansab, Cairo 1357 66, 165, 187, 197, 328, 402, 426, 

439-442, 491-492, 503-504, 513, 516, 520, 522, 526, 530, 539, 542, 630 
Usd al-ghaba, Cairo 1384/7 2, 44, 54, 63, 69, 118, 129-130, 133, 141, 144, 

157, 159, 161, 169, 170, 175, 182, 185, 201 
Ibn al-Athir, al-Mubarakb. Muhammad, Jami' al-usul, Cairo 1949/55 79, 271, 

282 

al-Nihaya figharib al-hadTth wa’l-athar, Cairo 1311 107 

Ibn Babawayh al-Qummi, Muhammad b. ‘AIT, ‘Hal al-shara’i', Najaf 
1966 245, 835 

Ma'am al-akhbar, Tehran 1379 111 

Thawab al-a‘mal, Tehran 1379 354 

Ibn al-Dawadari, Abu Bakr b. ‘Abdallah, al-Durra al-madiyya fi akhbar al-dawla 
al-Jatimiyya, Cairo 1380 468, 482, 486, 544-545, 547-548, 550, 552, 555, 

557-559, 562, 566, 585, 592, 596, 602 

Ibn Duqmaq, Ibrahim b. Muhammad. Kitdb al-intisar li-wdsita ‘iqd al-amsdr, Cairo 
1309 805 

Ibn Fadl Allah al-‘Umari, Masalik al-absarfi mamalik al-amsar, Cairo 1924 81 

Ibn al-Faqih al-Hamadhani, Ahmad b. Muhammad, Kitdb al-buldan, Leiden 
1885 80, 112, 116, 122-123, 125, 345, 465, 629, 832, 842 

Ibn al-Firkah, Ibrahim b. ‘Abd al-Rahman, Ba'ith al-nufus ila ziyarat al-quds 
al-mahrus, ed. C. D. Matthews, JPOS, 15:51, 1935 111 

Ibn Habib, Muhammad, Kitdb al-muhabbar, Beirut n.d. 89, 141, 149, 150, 157, 
388, 393 


876 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Ibn Hajar, Ahmad b. ‘All al-‘AsqalanI, Fath al-Ban, Cairo 1959/63 843 

al-Isaba jt tamytz al-sahaba, Cairo 1328 158, 201 

Raf‘ al-isr ‘an qudah misr , Cairo 1958/61 236, 561, 598 

Tafsir gharib al-hadith, Cairo n.d. 843 

Tahdhib al-tahdhib, Haydarabad 1326/7 111, 134, 141-142, 146, 150, 153- 

154, 158, 162-166, 168-174, 177, 182-186, 189-192, 194, 196-198, 201, 388- 
400, 402-405, 407-409, 425-430, 432, 435, 439, 441-452, 454, 510 
Ibn Hajar al-Haythami, Ahmad b. Muhammad, al-Sawd ‘iq al-muhriqafi’l-radd ‘ala 
ahl al-bida‘ wa’l-zandaqa, Cairo 1965 80 

Ibn Hawqal, Muhammad b. ‘All, Kitab surat al-ard, Leiden 1967 122, 302, 314, 

317, 337, 941 

Ibn Hayyan, Muhammad b. Yusuf al-Gharnatl, Tafsir al-bahr al-muhtt, Cairo 
1328 313, 843 

Ibn Hazm, ‘All b. Ahmad, al-Fasl jt’l-milal wa’l-ahwa wa’l-nihal, Cairo 
1317/21 286, 424 

Jamharat ansdb al-‘arab, Cairo 1962 89, 128-129, 131, 132, 140, 145, 153, 

162-163, 201, 222, 467, 487 

Ibn Hisham, ‘Abd al-Malik, al-Sira, ed. F, Wustenfeld, Gottingen 1858 22, 

28-29, 33, 35-36, 41, 141, 266 

Ibn Hubaysh, ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Muhammad, Kitab dhikr al-ghazawat, MS 
Leiden Or 885 54, 57, 60, 62 

Ibn ‘Idharf, Ahmad b. Muhammad, al-Baydn al-mughrib ft akhbdr andalus wa’l- 
maghrib, Leiden 1948 561, 860 

Ibn al-‘Imad, ‘Abd al-Hayy b. Ahmad, Shadharat al-dhahab, Cairo 1350 57, 94, 

158,163,165,174, 328, 388, 407, 409, 428, 454, 492, 555, 577, 624,630, 645, 651 
Ibn Iyas, Muhammad b. Ahmad, Ta’rikh misr, Cairo 1311 560 

Ibn al-jawzl, ‘Abd al-Rahman b. ‘All, Akhbdr al-hamqa, Najaf 1966 357, 642 

Kitab al-mawdu‘dt, al-Madlna 1966 111, 114, 271, 424 

al-Muntazam, Haydarabad 1358/9 213, 255, 267, 270, 328, 368, 456, 468, 

481, 484, 488, 490, 492, 496, 515-516, 569, 576-577, 580, 595, 602-603, 608, 
615, 634-635, 643-645, 654, 702, 821, 845, 888, 943 
Sifat al-sajwa, Haydarabad 1355/7 153, 313, 423, 439, 449 

Tafsir gharib al-qur’an, MS Bodl Marshall 551 313, 841 

al-Waja’ bi-ahwal al-mustajd, Cairo 1966 77, 201 

Zad al-masir JT ‘ilm al-tafsir, Damascus 1964/5 843, 941 

Ibn Jubayr, Muhammad b. Ahmad, al-Rihla, Beirut 1964 841 

Ibn al-Kalbl, Hisham b. Muhammad, Jamharat al-nasab, ed. W. Caskel, Leiden 
1966 128, 130, 132, 137, 140, 147, 149, 153, 158-159, 162, 171, 202-221 

Ibn Kathlr Abu’l-Fida’, Isma‘11 b. ‘All, Shama’il al-rasul wa-dald’il nubuwwatihi 
wa-khasa’isihi, Cairo 1967 417, 555 

Ibn Kathlr, Isma‘11 b. Muhammad, al-Bidaya wa’l-nihaya, Beirut 1966 10, 29, 

38, 44, 49, 54, 59, 61, 63, 81, 92, 94, 97-99, 101-102, 115, 141, 153, 158, 
161-162, 241, 255, 304, 389, 391, 393-394, 414, 416-417, 424, 460, 468, 476, 
481, 545, 548, 550, 552-553, 558, 569, 580, 592, 595, 602-603, 606, 611, 
701-702, 836, 843, 845, 943 


877 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Ibn Khaldun, ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Muhammad, Kitab al-'ibar, Cairo 1284 10, 

18,65, 94, 98-99,101,104,130,153,191, 393-394, 414,422, 456,457, 459-460, 
463, 475—476, 545, 548, 550, 552, 565, 603 
Ibn Khallikan, Ahmad b. Muhammad, Wafaydt al-a‘yan, Beirut 1969 100,114, 

153, 162, 216, 233, 255, 300-304, 387, 390, 402, 409, 417, 473-474, 476, 481, 
486, 490-492, 496, 514, 544-545, 549, 553, 557, 561, 571, 577, 588, 592, 596, 
607, 629, 632, 653, 836, 842, 882, 913, 943-944 
Ibn Khurdadhbih, Kitab al-masdlik wa’l-mamalik, Leiden 1889 54, 122, 241 

Ibn Maja, Muhammad b. Yazid, al-Sunan , Cairo 1953 107 

Ibn Makula, ‘All b. Hibat Allah, Ikmdl al-ikmal, Haydarabad 1962/7 447 

Ibn Mammatl, As'ad, Qawanin al-dawdwin , Cairo 1943 346, 353 

Ibn Manzur, Muhammad b. Mukarram, Lisan al-'arab, Beirut 1955 606 

Ibn Miskavvayh, Ahmad b. Muhammad, Tajarib al-umam, in: The Eclipse of the 
1933 352,700 

Iba Miskavvayh, Ahmad b. Muhammad, Tajarib al-umam , in: The Eclipse of the 
‘Abbasid Caliphate, H. F. Amedroz and D. S. Margoliouth eds., Oxford 
1920/21 476, 481, 557 

Ibn Muyassar, Muhammad b. ‘All, Akhbar misr, ed. H. Masse, Cairo 
1919 304, 549, 564, 596, 598-599, 603, 605, 607, 610-611, 650 

Ibn al-Qalanisl, Hamza, Dhayl ta’rikh dimashq, ed. H. F. Amedroz, Beirut 
1908 550, 553, 557-560, 562, 564-565, 568-569, 577, 584, 592, 596, 599, 

600, 603, 605, 608, 610-611, 625, 701, 811, 882, 911, 943 
Ibn Qayyim al-jawziyya, Muhammad b. Abl Bakr, Bada’i' al-fawa’id, Cairo 
n.d. 81 

al-Manar al-munif fi’l-sahih wa'i-da'if Halab 1970 39, 114 

Ibnal-QiftT, ‘Allb. Yusuf, Ta’rikhal-hukama , Leipzig 1903 393,556,561,720, 

848 

Ibn Qudama al-Maqdisi, ‘Abdallah b. Ahmad, al-Istibsar ft nasab al-salidba min 
al-ansar, Beirut 1392 74, 141, 158 

IbnQutayba, ‘Abdallah b. Muslim, al-Ma'arif Cairo 1969 2, 18, 89, 101, 126, 

140-141, 153, 158, 161, 179, 389-390, 439 
al-Qirtayn , Cairo 1355 843 

Tafstr ghartb al-qur’an, Cairo 1958 843 

‘Uyiin al-akhbar, Cairo 1943/9 270 

Ibn al-Rahib, Butrus, Ta’rikh, ed. L. Cheikho, Beirut 1903 10, 576 

Ibn Rajab, Abu’l-Faraj ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Shihab al-DTn Ahmad. Dhayl tabaqat 
al-hanabila, Damascus 1951 625 

Ibn Rusta, Ahmad b. ‘Umar, al-A'laq al-nafisa, Leiden 1891 455 

Ibn Sa‘d, Muhammad, Kitab al-(abaqat, Leiden 1905 18, 22, 29, 36-39, 57, 81, 

88, 95, 98, 111, 122, 141, 143, 153, 155, 158-159, 161-162, 167, 169-170, 173, 
176-177, 181, 185, 197, 201, 229, 241, 255, 266, 313, 405, 425, 428, 440, 443, 
446, 448-449, 452 

Ibn Sa‘Id, ‘All b. Musa, al-Mughrib fi hula al-maghrib, IV, Leiden 1899 473, 

475-476, 484, 487-488, 500, 836 


878 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Ibn al-Sayrafi, ‘All b. Munjib, al-Ishara ila man nala’l-wizdra, Cairo 1924 549, 

561, 577, 594, 598, 803, 882, 913 

Ibn Sayyid al-Nas, Muhammad b. Muhammad, ‘Uyun al-athar fijunun al-maghdzi 
wa’l-shama’il wa’l-siyar, Cairo 1356 29, 81 

Ibn al-Shaddad, Muhammad b, ‘All al-Halabi, Barq al-sha’m fi mahasin iqlim 
al-sha’m, MS Leiden Or 3076 71, 122, 297, 260, 467-468, 470, 476, 565, 

602, 610, 944 

Ibn al-Shihna, Muhibb al-Din al-Halabi, al-Durr al-muntakhab fi takmilat ta’rikh 
halab, (1) ed. J. Sarkis 1909; (2) transl. J. Sauvaget, Les perles choisies, Beirut 
1933 300 

Ibn Taghri Bardi, Abu’l-Mahasin Yusuf, al-Nujiim al-zahira fi muluk misr wa’l- 
qahira, Cairo 1929/56 101-102, 116, 121-122, 136, 141, 179, 213, 303, 339, 

387, 388, 393-394, 410, 414, 417-418, 420, 433, 456, 460-461, 469-470, 475- 
476, 477, 481, 491-492, 496-497, 545, 548, 552-553, 560, 580, 588, 592, 595- 
596, 599, 602-603, 606-608, 610-611, 645, 700, 836, 942-944 
Ibn Taymiyya, Ahmad b. ‘Abd al-Halim, Majmil'at aUrasd’il al-kubra , Beirut 1972 
105, 114 

Tafsir surat al-ikhlds, Cairo 1323 114 

Ibnal-Tayyib, Commentaire sur la genese, ed. J. C. J. Sanders, CSCO 274, Louvain 
1967 679 

Ibn Tiqtaqa Muhammad b. ‘All, al-Fakhn fi’l-addb al-sultaniyya , ed. H. Deren- 
bourg, Paris 1895 399 

Ibn Tulun, Muhammad, Umara' misrfi’l-islam, Beirut n.d. 179 
Ibn Zafar al-Siqilll, Muhammad b. ‘All, Khayr al-bishr fi khayr al-bashar, Cairo 
1280 77 

Ibn Zafir, Jamal al-Din ‘Ali al-Azdl, Akhbar al-zaman fi ta’rikh bani’l-'abbas ( = al 
duwal al-munqati'a), (1) MS BM Or 3685; (2) ed. A. Ferre, Paris 1971 357, 

552, 561, 577, 592, 598, 860, 913, 944 

al-ldrisi, Muhammad b. Muhammad, Nuzhat al-mushtaq fi ihtiraq al-djdq, ed. E. 

Cerulli et al, Neapoli 1970 et sqq. 297, 311, 337, 348, 350, 606, 874 
‘Imad al-Din b. Muhammad al-Hanafi, Tadhkirat al-‘imad fi fada’il dimashq 
wa’l-sham, MS Cambridge Or 742 269 

‘Inan, Muhammad ‘Abdallah, al-Hakim bi-amri ’llah, Cairo n.d. 569 
al-Isbahanl, Abu’l-Faraj ‘Ali b. al-Husayn, Kitdb al-aghani (the Bulaq edition), 
Beirut 1970 10, 18, 89, 93, 175, 313, 345, 399, 418 

Maqdtil al-talibiyin, Cairo 1368 460 

al-Ishbili, Muhammad b. Khayr, Fahrasa, Saraqusta 1894/5 492, 513, 624 

al-Istakhri, Ibrahim b. Muhammad, Masdlik al-mamalik, Leiden 1967 122, 276, 

311, 314, 317, 337 

‘Iyad (al-qadi) b. Musa, Tartib al-madarik wa-taqrib al-masalik li-ma‘rifat a'lam madh- 
hab malik, Beirut 1387 178,400,402,481,555 

al-Jahiz, ‘Amr b. Bahr, Kitdb al-hayawan, ed. ‘Abd al-Salam Harun, Cairo 
1938/45 701, 757, 797 

Kitab al-tabassur bi’l-tijara, ed. Hasan Husnl ‘Abd al-Wahhab, Majallat al- 
majma' al-'ilmial-'arabibi-dimashq, 12:321, 1932 354, 355 

al-Jahiz, ‘Amr b. Bahr, Rasa’il, Cairo 1964/5 835 


879 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


al-‘Uthmaniyya, Cairo 1955 241 

al-Jahshiyari, Muhammad b. ‘Abdus, Kitab al-wuzara’, Cairo 1357 99, 231, 

388, 399 

al-Jawallql, Mawhub b. Ahmad, Khata’ al-‘awamm, ed. H. Derenbourg, Fest¬ 
schrift H. L. Fleischer, Leipzig 1875:107 123, 125 

al-Jazarf, Muhammad b. Muhammad, Ghdyat al-nihaya fi tabaqat al-qurra’, Cairo 
1351 492, 496, 504, 520, 525, 647 

al-Karajill, Muhammad b. ‘All, Kanz al-fawa’id, Mashhad 1322 77, 639 

al-Khafajl, Ahmad b. ‘All, Nasim al-riyad fi sharh shifts’ al-qadi ‘iyad, Istanbul 
1312/5 125, 177, 201, 513, 846 

al-Khalidl, Ahmad, Ahl'al-'ilm wa’l-hukm fi riffilastin, ‘Amman 1968 353, 390, 

401,440,520,539,658 

Khalifa Ibn Khayyat al-‘Asfurl, Ta’rikh, Najaf 1967 54, 57, 59, 65-66, 72, 

88-89, 93, 102, 126, 131, 147-148, 150-151, 153, 155, 394 
al-Khassaf, Ahmad b. ‘Umar, Ahkam al-awqaf, Cairo 1322 815 

al-Khatib al-Baghdadl, Ahmad b. ‘All, Mudih awhdm al-jam' wa’l-tajriq, Hayd- 
arabad 1959 165, 388, 439, 538 

Ta’rikh baghdad, Cairo 1931 174, 360, 386, 388, 399, 405, 409, 428, 433, 442, 

453-454, 470, 496, 498, 506-507, 512-513, 515, 517, 519, 522, 547, 635, 644, 
655, 927 

al-Khazin al-Baghdadl, ‘All b. Muhammad, Lubdb al-ta’wil fi ma'am al-tanzil, 
Cairo 1328 843 

al-Khazrajl, Ahmad b. ‘Abdallah, Khuldsat tahdhib al-kamal fi asma’ al-rijal, Cairo 
1322 141-142, 146, 150, 153, 155, 158, 163-165, 171-172, 174, 177, 184, 

186, 189-191, 388, 400, 407, 428, 439, 442, 449, 454 
al-Kindi, Muhammad b. Yusuf, Kitab al-qudah, ed. R. Guest, Leiden 1912 236, 

406, 422, 453, 456, 460, 473, 475-477, 479, 489, 518, 521, 529 
Mahbub al-Manbiji ( = Agapius), Kitab al-'unwan, PO VIII (2) 4, 8, 69, 102 

Majid, ‘Abd al-Mun‘im, Zuhiir khilafat al-jatimiyin, Cairo 1928 561, 569, 596, 

598,603 

al-Makin, ‘Abdallah b. Abl Iliyas, ibn al-‘AmId, Ta’rikh al-muslimin, ed. Erpen- 
nius, Leiden 1625 710 

al-Malati, Muhammad b. Ahmad, al-Tanbth wa’ I-radd ‘ala ahl al-ahwa’ wa’l-bida‘, 
Baghdad 1968 463 

Malik b. Anas, al-Muwatta, Cairo 1967 271 

al-MaqdisI, Ahmad b. Muhammad, Muthir al-gharam bi-fada’il al-quds wa’l-sham (1) 
ed. al-Khalidi, Jaffa 1946; (2) ed. G. Le Strange, The Noble Sanctuary at 
Jerusalem , JRAS, NS 19:247, 1887 67, 69, 81, 86, 102, 104, 115, 133, 141, 

156, 509 

al-MaqdisI, Mutahhar b. Tahir, al-Bad’ wa’l-ta’rikh, ed. C. Huart, Paris 
1899 69, 111, 122, 125, 282, 424, 665 

al-Maqqarf, Ahmad b. Muhammad al-Tilimsanl, Najh al-tib, Beirut n.d. 355 
al-Maqrizi, Ahmadb. ‘All, Daw'al-sarili-ma'rifatkhabartamimal-dari, (l)ed. C. D. 
Matthews, JPOS, 19:147, 1939/40; (2) Cairo 1972 201 

al-Dhahab al-masbiik fit dhikr man hajja min al-khulajd’ wa’l-muluk, Cairo 1955 
259 


88o 



bibliographical index 


Itti'az al-hunaja\ Cairo 1967/73 255, 304, 463, 545, 547, 548-549, 550, 

552-553, 555, 557-558, 560-561, 564-566, 576, 585, 587-588, 592, 595-596, 
598, 600, 602-603, 607, 610-611, 811, 894, 944 

al-Mawa‘iz wa’l-i'tibar bi-dhikr al-khitat wa’l-athar, Beirut n.d. 76, 175, 245, 
259, 304, 313, 344, 364, 422, 460, 469, 475-476, 483, 549-550, 552-553, 564, 
566, 569, 571, 576-577, 585, 592, 598, 702, 709-710, 836, 918, 941-942, 943 
al-Muqaffa, ed. T. Bianquis, BEO, 26:185, 1973 550, 552, 553, 558 

Mari b. Sulayman, Kitah al-tnajdal, akhbar fatarika kurst al-mashriq , ed. H. Gis- 
mondi, Roma 1899 746 

al-Mas‘udT, ‘AIT b. al-Husayn, Muriij al-dhahab, ed. C. Barbier de Meynard, Paris 
1861/77 2, 89-90, 93, 101, 109, 115, 122-123, 125, 337, 458, 460, 488, 661, 

667, 700-701, 941 

al-Tanbih wa'l-ishrdf Leiden 1894 29-30, 36-37, 41, 89, 93, 99, 125, 284, 

286, 399, 412, 468, 701, 832, 918, 921, 929, 941 
al-Mawsill, Isma‘11 Hibat Allah b. Abfl-Rida, Ghayat al-wasa’il ila ma'rifat al- 
awa’il, MS Cambridge Or Oq 33 54, 141, 201, 267 

al-Mawsili, al-Mu‘afa b. Isma'il, Nihayat al-Bayan fi tafslr al-qur’an, MS BM Or 
2981 113, 313, 843 

al-Mughrib fi hull al-maghrib, V ( al-nujum al-zahira fi hull hadrat al-qahira ), Cairo 
1970 344, 561, 564, 568, 594 

al-Muhallabi, al-Hasan b. Ahmad, al-Masalik wa’l-mamalik, ed. Salah al-DTn 
al-Munajjid, Qit'a min kitab mafqud, Majallat ma'had al-makhtutat al-'arabiyya , 
4:43, 1958 81, 86 

al-Mu‘izz b. Badls, ‘Umdat al-kuttab wa-‘uddat dhawTal-alibba’, ed. A. al-Halujl, 
Majallat ma'hadal-makhtfitat al-'arabiyya, 17:43, 1971 346 
al-MuqaddasT, Shams al-DTn Muhammad b. Ahmad, Ahsati al-taqasim jj ma'rifat 
al-dqdltm, Leiden 1906 41, 80, 86, 105, 111-112,114, 116, 122-123, 277, 280, 

284-285, 297, 300, 303, 309, 311, 314, 316-317, 321, 324, 326-328, 330-332, 
337-339, 344, 349, 362, 367, 418, 424, 624, 669-700, 778, 842, 846-847 
al-Musabbihi, Muhammad b. ‘Ubayd Allah, Akhbar misr, Cairo 1978 577, 

581, 582, 583, 585, 586, 587, 588, 637, 638, 803, 941 
al-Musharraf, Abu’l-Ma‘alT b. al-Murajja al-MaqdisI, Fada’il bayt al-maqdis, MS 
Tubingen Ma VI 27 69, 80-81, 86, 103-104, 228, 520, 833, 838, 843 

Muslim b. al-Hajjaj, al-$ahih, Cairo 1960 107 

al-Nasa’T, Ahmad b. Shu‘ayb, Sunati, Cairo 1383 107 

Nasir Khusraw, Safarname, ed. C. Schefer, Paris 1881 122, 281,284, 298, 302, 

314, 322-323, 330, 332, 337, 339, 344-345, 360, 362, 566, 593, 595, 668, 829, 
836, 842, 847 

Nasr b. Muzahim al-Minqari, Waq'at sijfin, Cairo 1382 88, 91, 131, 147, 148 

al-NawawI, Ahmad b. Sharaf, Tahdhtb al-asma’ wa’l-lughat, Cairo n.d. 23, 29, 
63, 144, 153, 156, 158, 165, 179, 184, 201 
al-Naysaburf al-QummT, al-Hasan b. Muhammad, Tafiir ghartb al-qur’an, on 
margin of Tabari’s Tafstr, Cairo 1323/9 843 

al-Naysaburi, Muhammad b. Ahmad, Rawdat al-wa‘izin, Najaf 1386 236 

al-Nuwayri, Ahmad b. ‘Abd al-Wahhab, Nihayat al-arab fijuniin al-adab, Cairo 
1924 111,269 


88i 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


al-Qalqashandl, Ahmad b.‘Abdallah, Ma’athir al-inafaji ma'rifat al-khilafa, Kuwayt 
1964 482, 543 

Subh al-a'sha’, Cairo 1913/19 201, 238, 259, 549, 746 

al-QaramanT, Ahmad b. Yusuf, Akhbar al-duwal, Baghdad 1282 92 

Qari, Nizam al-Din Mahmud, Dlwatt albisa, Constantinople 1303 357 

al-Qasiml, Muhammad Sa‘id, Qamus al-sina'at al-shamiya, Paris 1960 898 

al-QazwIru, Zakariyya b. Muhammad, 'Aja’ib al-makhluqat, on margin of al- 
Damiri’s Kitab al-Hayawdn, Cairo 1383 233 

al-Quda‘i, Muhammad b. Salama, ‘Uyun al-ma‘arifwa-funun akhbar al-khala’if, 
MS Bodl Pockok 270 549, 563, 571, 576 

al-Qurashi, Muhammad b. Yusuf, Kijayat al-talib, Najafl390 80 
al-Qurtubl, Muhammad b. Ahmad, al-Jami‘ li-ahkam al-qur’an, Cairo 1387 9 

al-Razzaz al-Wasiti, Aslam b. Sahl, Ta'nkh wdsit, Baghdad 1967 432 

al-Safadl, Khalil b. Aybak, al-Wafi bi’l-wafayat, ed. H. Ritter, Wiesbaden 1959 et 
sqq. 255, 400, 424, 439, 441-442, 460, 476, 489, 524, 556, 624, 641, 643, 
653-654, 656-657, 836 

al-Sahml, Hamza b. Yusuf, Ta’rtkhjurjan, Haydarabad 1950 129, 646 

Sa‘Id Ibn Bitrlq, Ta’nkh, ed. L. Cheikho, CSCO (At.), ser. Ill, vols. VI, VII, 
Leipzig 1906,1909 4,8, 44,48-49, 58,61-62, 65, 69,72-73,81-82,104-105, 

116, 413, 468-469, 665, 669-670, 686, 688-696, 710, 714, 718 
al-Sam‘am, ‘Abd al-Karlm b. Muhammad, al-Ansab, (1) Haydarabad 1963/6; (2) 
facsimile edition by D. S. Margoliouth: BM Add. 23,355 113, 176-177, 297, 

328, 389, 403-404, 407, 426, 450, 453, 511, 520, 540, 630, 658 
al-Samarqandl, Nasr b. Muhammad, Bustan al-'arifin, on margin of Tanbth al- 
ghafiqin, Cairo 1347 80, 201 

al-Samhudl, ‘All b. ‘Abdallah, Wafa’ al-waja’ bi-akhbar dar al-mustaja, Cairo 
1980 69, 80-81, 109, 120-122, 255, 575, 841 

Sawlrus b. al-Muqaffa‘, Siyaral-aba al-batarika, ta’nkh batarika misr, ed. B. Evetts, 
C. F. Seybold, A. Khater, O. H. E. Burmester, 1904 et sqq 102, 338, 456, 
479, 549, 551, 569, 608, 678, 704, 913 
al-Shabushtl, ‘All b. Muhammad, al-Diydrat, Baghdad 1951 673-674 

al-Shafi‘I, Muhammad b. Idris, Kitab al-Umm, Cairo 1968 238 

al-Shahrastanl, Muhammad b. ‘Abd al-Karlm, Kitab al-milal wa’l-nihal, London 
1846 918, 930, 941 

al-Sha‘ram, ‘Abd al-Wahhab b. Ahmad, Mukhtasar tadhkirat al-qurtubi bi-ahwdl 
al-mawta wa-umur al-akhira, Cairo 1388 80 

al-Shayzari, ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Nasr, Nihayat al-rutba fi talab al-hisba, Cairo 
1946 238,346 

al-Shazari, ‘All b. Ja'far, Kitab al-buldan, MS BM Add 7496 111, 116 

al-Shibll, Muhammadb. ‘Abdallah, Mahasinal-wasa’il, MSBMOrl530 111, 

201 

Sibt Ibn al-jawzl, Yusuf b. Qaza’ughlu, Kanz al-muluk fi kayfiyyat al-suluk, ed. G. 
Witestam, Lund 1970 89, 93, 605 

Mir’at al-zaman, (1) MS BM Or 4215, 4618-9; (2) ed. A. Suwaym; (3) MS Leiden 


882 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Or 88 123, 267, 414-415, 460, 464, 569, 577, 592, 594-596, 603, 606, 

700-701, 943 

al-Sijistani, Abu Bakr Muhammad b. ‘Aziz, Gharib al-qur’dn, (1) MS India Office 
3794; (2) Cairo 1355 123 

al-Silafi, Ahmad b. Muhammad al-Isbahanl, Fada’il bayt al-maqdis, MS Cam¬ 
bridge Or Qq 91 (II) 81, 111, 843 

al-Subkl, ‘All b. ‘Abd al-Kafi, Shija’ al-saqdm Jt ziyadat khayr al-andm, Cairo 
1318 66, 81, 111-112, 114, 630 

al-Subkl, ‘Abd al-Wahhab b. ‘All, Tabaqdt al-shafi'tya al-kubra, Cairo 
1964/8 255, 424, 460, 465, 489-490, 491, 507, 514, 516, 521, 537, 624, 

626-627, 630, 647 

al-Suhayll, ‘Abd al-Rahman b. ‘Abdallah, al-Ta‘rff wa’l-i‘lam li-ma ubhima fT’l- 
qur’an min al-asma’ al-aiam, MS India Office 4110 111, 113, 125, 201 

al-Sulami, ‘Izzal-DInb. ‘Abd al-Salam, Targhtb ahl al-isldm ft suknd al-sham, ed. A. 
S. al-Khalidl, Jerusalem 1940 165 

al-Sulami, Muhammad b. al-Husayn, Tabaqdt al-stifiyya, ed. J. Petersen, Leiden 
1960 389, 515 

al-SulI, Muhammad b. Yahya, Akhbar al-radi wa’l-muttaqi, London 1935 470, 

476, 488, 821, 868 

al-Suyutl, ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Abl Bakr, al-Durr al-manthur Jt’l-tafsir bi’l-ma’thur, 
Cairo 1314 841 

Husn al-muhddara jt ta’rtkh tnisr u’a’l-qdhira , Cairo 1967 338, 402, 549, 560- 

561, 576, 596, 632, 836 

al-Itkanjt ‘uliim al-qur’dn, Cairo 1967 354 

al-Khasa’is al-kubra, Cairo 1968 29, 201, 417 

al-La’dli’al-masnu‘aJt’l-ahddfthal-mawdu‘a, Cairo 1352 226, 284 

Mu’tarak al-aqranjt i'jaz al-qur’dn, Cairo 1969 843 

Ta’rtkh al-khulaja’, Cairo 1953 57, 72, 417 

al-Tabaranl, Sulayman b. Ahmad, al-MuJam al-saghlr, al-Madlna 1968 80, 

201, 436-438, 493-495, 499, 502-504, 510, 523, 527-536, 542, 847 

al-Tabari, Muhammad b. Jarir, Jdmi' al-bayan ‘an ta’wll al-qur’dn , Cairo 1957— 
60 313, 843 

al-Muntakhab min kitdb dhayl al-mttdhayyal Jt ta’rikh al-sahaba wa’l-tabi'tn (Suppl. 
to vol. VIII of his Ta’rikh), Cairo 1358 81 

Ta’rikh al-rusul wa’l-muluk, (1) Leiden 1964; (2) Cairo (dar al-ma‘arif) 1969 2, 

9-10, 28-29, 33, 35-36, 41, 44-46, 49, 53-54, 57-59, 61-63, 65, 67-69, 72-74, 
80-81, 88-89, 92-97, 98-99, 101, 116, 118-119, 130, 138-139, 141, 151, 153- 
154, 163, 168, 188, 222-223, 230, 232, 234, 237-238, 241, 267, 269, 282, 
387-388, 390, 393-394, 399, 410-411, 414-420, 422, 443, 460, 463, 467, 468- 
469, 707 

al-Tabari, Muhibb al-DIn Ahmad b. ‘Abdallah, al-Riydd al-tiadra Jt manaqib al- 
‘ashara, Cairo 1327 79 

al-Tabbakh, Muhammad Raghib b. Mahmud, A'ldm al-nubald’ bi-ta’rikh halab 
al-shahbd’, Aleppo 1923 584 

al-Tadmurl, Abu’l-Fida’ Ishaq b. Ibrahim, Muthlr al-gharam wa-khulasat al- 
kalam IT fadl ziyarat sayyidna al-khalll, (1) MS BM Or 1284; (2) ed. 


883 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 

C. D. Matthews ,JPOS, 17:108, 1937 112, 230, 518, 541, 835 

al-Tanukhi, Abu ‘All al-Muhassin, Nishwar al-muhadara, ed. D. S. Margoliouth, 
London 1921 357, 702 

al-TayalisI, Abu Da’ud Sulayman b. Da’ud, al-Musnad, Haydarabad 1321 80, 

201, 271 

al-Tha‘alibi, ‘Abd al-Malik b. Muhammad, Latd’if al-ma'drif Cairo 1960 94, 

233, 357-358, 414 

Thimdr al-qulub jt’l-mudaf wa’l-mansiib, Cairo 1965 74, 337, 345, 348 

Yatimat al-dahrfi shu'ard’ ahl al-'asr, Damascus 1304 560 

Thabit b. Sinan b. Qurra al-Sabf (wa-Ibn al-‘Adim). Ta’rikh akhbar al-qaramita, 
Beirut 1971 468, 550, 552-553, 555 

al-Tihawi, Ahmad b. Muhammad, Sharh ma'dnial-dthdr, Cairo 1388 76 

al-Tirmidhl, Muhammad b. ‘Isa, Sunan, al-Madlna 1964/67 417 

al-Turtushl, Abu Bakr Muliammad b. al-Wal!d, Kitdb al-hawadith wa’l-bida‘, ed. 

M. al-Talibi, Tunis 1959 229, 629, 843 

al-Tusi, Muhammad b. Ja'far, Amalt, Baghdad 1964 636 

al-‘UlaymI, Abu'l-Yumn Mujlr al-Din, al-Uns al-jalil bi-ta’rikh al-quds wa’l-khalil, 
Cairo 1866 69, 81, 86, 104-105, 112, 114-115, 127, 141,159,164,166, 183, 

184, 190, 201, 229, 304, 389, 405, 409, 418, 509, 569, 580, 595, 600, 602, 616, 
619, 620-621, 623-625, 628-631, 634, 678, 832, 836, 838, 842-844, 848 
al-’Uyiin wa’l-hadd’iqfi akhbar al-haqa’iq, (1) ed. M.J. De Geoeje, Fragm. Histor- 
icorum Arabicorum, Leiden 1871; (2) MS Berlin Wetzstein II 342 101, 367, 

399-410, 460, 468, 472, 475, 477 

al-Waqidi, Muhammad b. ‘Umar, Kitdb al-maghdzi, London 1966 21, 28-29, 

33, 35, 37, 41, 46, 109 

Warram b. Abl Firas al-Ashtarl, Tatibih al-khawatir wa-nuzhat al-nawdzir, Najaf 
1964 843 

al-Wasitl, Abu Bakr Muhammad b. Ahmad, Fada’il al-bayt al-muqaddas, ed. I. 
Hasson, Jerusalem 1979 81-82, 86, 102, 104, 107, 125, 228, 417-418, 441, 

614, 617, 836 

al-Yafi‘1, ‘Abdallah b. As‘ad, Mir’at al-janan wa-'ibrat al-yaqzan , Haydarabad 
1337/9 66, 94, 417, 439, 460, 474, 477, 549, 553, 563, 569, 571, 580, 624, 836 

Yahya b. Adam, Kitdb al-kharaj, ed. A. Ben Shemesh, Leiden 1967 238, 241 

Yahya Ibn Sa'Id al-Antaki, Ta’rikh , (1) ed. L. Cheikho, CSCO (Ar.) ser. Ill, vol. 
VII, pp. 91 et sqq. (2) ed. J. Kratschkovsky et A, Vasiliev, PO XVIII (5), XXIII 
(2) 246, 255, 477, 480-481, 483, 485, 545, 548-549, 552-553, 557-560, 563, 

565-566, 569-570, 577-578, 585, 592, 594-595, 597, 696-700, 716, 746 
al-Ya‘qubI, Ibn Wadih, Kitdb al-bulddn, Leiden 1892 21, 41, 57, 122, 223, 282, 

297, 298, 320-321, 326, 328, 331, 941 

Ta’nkh, Leiden 1883 23, 29, 46, 53-54, 57, 61, 63, 66, 69, 72-74, 88-89, 

92-93, 101, 105, 114, 116, 132, 140, 149, 241, 244, 388, 399, 410, 414, 421, 422 
Yaqut, b. ‘Abdallah al-HamawI, Mujam al-bulddn, ed. F. Wiistenfeld, Leipzig 
18,66 17, 21, 54, 57, 72, 80, 92, 107, 111, 113, 116, 122, 125, 162, 185, 190, 

212, 241, 277, 301, 302, 312, 319, 362, 426, 429, 430, 431, 440, 492, 497, 501, 


884 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


504, 511, 520, 526, 530, 539, 542, 558, 624, 630, 644, 658, 669, 705, 846, 847, 
887, 943 

Mu'jam al-udaba’, ed. D. S. Margoliouth, London 1923/30 560, 584 

Yusuf al-Badi‘i al-Dimashql, Subh al-munabbi’ ‘an haythiyyat al-mutanabbi, MS 
Paris Bibliotheque nationale, Asselin 705 479 

al-Zabldi, Muhammad Murtada, Taj al-'arus, Kuwayt 1965 606 

al-Zajjaj, Ibrahim b. Muhammad, Ma‘ani al-qur’an, MS BM Or 8248 841 

Al-Zamakhshari, Mahmud b. ‘Umar, Khasa’is al-'ashara al-kiram, Baghdad 
1968 79 

al-Zarkashi, Muhammad b. ‘Abdallah, I'lam al-sdjid bi-ahkam al-masdjid, Cairo 
1385 109, 111, 114, 125, 836 


European languages 

Abel, A., Changements politiques et litterature eschatologique, SI, 2:23, 
1954 255 

La convention de Nadjran et le developpement du ‘droit des gens’ dans l’Islam 
classique, RIDA, 2:1, 1949 236 

La lettre polemique d’Arethas a l’emir de Damas, Byzantion, 24:33, 1954 701 
Abel, F. M., Geographie de la Palestine, Paris 1933-38 122 

Jerusalem, DACL, VII (2):2304 103, 566 

Le sud palestinien d’apres la carte mosaique de Madaba, JPOS, 4:107, 
1924 310 

Adler, C., Jewish History in Arabian Historians, JQR, 2:106, 1890 786 

Acta Sanctorum, first edited byj. Bollandus, G. Henschenius. D. van Papenbroeck, 
and others, reprint, Bruxelles 1965 392, 607, 687, 706, 708, 721 

Adam, A., Texte zum Manichaisr.ius, Berlin 1954 46 

Adami Gesta, in: MGH (SS), VI 723-724 

Adhemar ( = Ademar) Cabanensis (= de Chabannes), ex Chronico, 14 :RHFG, 
X:MGH (SS) IV 574, 712, 723-724 
Adler, E. N., Catalogue of Hebrew Manuscripts, Cambridge 1921 808 

Nouveaux documents sur la dispute entre Ben Meir et Saadia, REJ, 67:44, 
1914 785, 787 

Adler, E. N. and I. Broyde, Nouveaux fragments relatifs a Ben Meir, REJ, 41:224, 
1900 738 

Adler, E. N. and M. Seligsohn, Une nouvelle chronique samaritaine (3), REJ, 
45:223, 1902 10, 114, 124, 561, 577, 941 

Adonis Chronicon, in: MGH, SS. II 681 

Aime, moine du Mont-Cassin, L’Ystoire de li Normani, Paris 1835 = Amato di 
Montecassino, Storia de’ Normani, Roma 1935 718 

Albright, W. F., The Evolution..., AJSLL, 41:73, 1925 483 

Albericus (Albertus) Aquensis, Historia Hierosolymitanae Expeditionis, in: RHC 
(Occ.), IV 607-608, 943-944 
Alcuini Epistolae, in MGH (Epistolae), IV 396, 688 

Alishan, L., Deux descriptions armeniennes des lieux saints de Palestine, AOL, 
2:394, 1884 680 


885 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Allony, N., An Autograph of Sa‘Id b. Farjoi of the Ninth Century, Textus, 6:106, 
1968 290 

Alt, A., Die Bistiimer der alten Kirche Palastinas, Palastinajahrbuch, 29:67, 
1933 310 

Amann, E., Jerusalem (Eglise de), DTC, VIII:997 663, 685, 699 
Silvestre II, DTC, XIV 682 

Amari, M., Storia dei musultnani di Sicilia 2 , I, Catania 1933 695 

Amedroz, H. F., Tales of Official Life from the ‘Tadhkira’ of Ibn Hamdun.. . 
JRAS, 1804:409 746 

Anawati et Jomier, Un papyrus chretien en arabe, Melanges islamologiques, 2:91, 
1954 720 

Andrae, T., Mohammed, the Man and His Faith, London 1956 109 

Ankori, Z., The Correspondence of Tobias Ben Moses the Karaite of Constanti¬ 
nople, S. W. Baron Presentation Volume, New York 1959:1 938, 939 

Karaites in Byzantium, New York 1959 919, 929, 936, 938, 940 

Annales Altahenses Maiores, ed. E. L. B. Oefele, Hannover 1891 726 

Annales Augustani, in: MGH (SS), III 712, 726 
Annales Cavenses, in MGH (SS), III 65 
Annales Hildesheimenses, in: MGH (SS), III 726 
Annales Juvavetises maiores, in: MGH (SS), I 396 
Annales Ottenburani, in: MGH (SS), V 726 
Annales Wirziburgenses, in MGH (SS), II 726 
Annalista Saxo, in: MGH (SS), VI 709, 722-723 

Antoninus Placentinus, Itinerarium, ed. T. Tobler et A. Molinier, Itinera Hiero- 
solymitana, Geneve 1879:92 21, 847 

Aptowitzer, V., Formularies of Decrees and Documents from a Gaonic Court, 
JQR, NS 4:23, 1913/4 757 

Aronius, J., Regesten, Berlin 1902 351, 574, 579 

Ashtor, E., The Diet of Salaried Classes in the Medieval Near East, JAH, 4:1, 
1970 337-338 

Histoire des prix et des salaires dans I’Orient medieval, Paris 1969 338 

Migrations de l’lraq vers les pays mediterraneens dans le haut Moyen Age, 
AESC, 27:185, 1972 282, 424, 836 

Republiques urbaines dans le Proche-Orient a l’epoque des croisades? CCM 
118:117,1975 344,348,360,611 

A Social and Economic History of the Near East in the Middle Ages, London 
1976 23, 275, 611 

Atiya, A. S., A History of Eastern Christianity, London 1968 679 

Bacharach, J. L., The Career of Muhammad Ibn Tughj al-Ikhshid, a Tenth 
Century Governor of Egypt, Speculum, 50:586, 1975 367, 473, 475—477 

Bacher, W., La bibliotheque d’un medecinjuif, REJ, 40:55, 1900 750 

Ein neuerschlossenes Capitel der jiidischen Geschichte, JQR, 15:79, 
1902/3 859, 902 

Scham als Name Palastina’s, JQR, 18:564, 1905/6 123 

Baedeker, K., Palestine and Syria, London 1876 80 


886 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Baer, E., Review of: K. A. C. Creswell, Early Muslim Architecture 2 , O LZ, 68:117, 
1973 105 

Eine jiidische Messiasprophetie auf das Jahr 1186 (II), MGWJ, 70:155, 
1926 76 

Review of Finkelstein’s Jewish Self-Government, MGWJ, 71:392, 1927 868 

Baethgen, F., Fragments syrischer und arabischer Flistoriker (Abhandlungen Jur die 
Kunde des Morgenlandes, vol, VIII, no. 3), Leipzig 1884 81, 97, 786 

Baix, F. and L. Jadin, Benoit de Saint-Andre, DHGE, VIII, 241 £f. 397 

Baldricus (Baudri) Dolensis, Historia Jerosolimitana, in: RHC (Occ.) IV 943 
Balog, P., La monetazione della Sicilia araba ... in: F. Gabrieli, ed., Gli Arabi in 
Italia, Milano 1985:611 369 

Baramki, D. C., Excavations at Khirbat al-Mafjar, QDAP, 5:132, 1936 117 

Excavations at Khirbat al-Mafjar (III), QDAP, 8:51, 1939 117 

Bardenhewer, O., Geschichte der altkirchlichen Literatur, V, Freiburg 1932 672 

Baron, S. W., The Jewish Community, Philadelphia 1945 269 

Saadia’s Communal Activities, Saadia Anniversary Volume, New York 
1943:9 820, 852 

A Social and Religious History of the Jews, New Y ork 1952 et sqq. 76, 289, 305, 
777, 809, 868, 947 

Baumstark, A., Abendlandische Palastinapilger des erstenJahrhundertsandihreBerichte, 
Koln 1906 347, 398, 664, 700-701, 706 

Die modestinianischen und die konstantinischen Bauten am heiligen Grabe zu Jerusalem, 
Padeborn 1915 710, 716 

Becker, C. H„ ‘Abd AUlh b. Sa‘d, in El 2 179 
Beitrdge z. Geschichte Agyptens, Strassburg 1902/3 577, 585, 592 

Islamstudieti, I, Leipzig 1924 97 

Belin, M., Fetoua relatif a la condition des Zimmis, JA, 4' ser., t, 18:417, 
1851 270 

Bell, H. I., The Arabic Bilingual Entagion, Proceedings of the American Philosophical 
Society, 89:531, 1945 244 

Greek Papyri in the British Museum, vol. IV ( The Aphrodito Papyri), London 
1910 108 

Bell, R., The Origin of Islam in Its Christian Environment, Leiden 1926 80 

Benedictus Monachus, Chronicon, in MGH (SS), III; MPL 139 397 

Benesevic, V., Die byzantinishcen Ranglisten, BNGJ, 5:97, 1926/7 52, 54, 59 

Benoit, P., Pretoire, Lithostroton et Gabbatha, RB, 59:531, 1950 680 

Ben-Zvi, I., The Codex of Ben Asher, Textus, 1:1, 1960 289 

Berliere, D. U., Les anciens monasteres benedictins de Terre-Sainte (1), Revue 
benedictine, 5:437, 1888 398, 584, 681, 682, 709, 717-718 

Bernoldi Chronicon, in MGH (SS), V 726 

Beshir, B.J., Fatimid Military Organization, Der Islam, 55:37, 1978 563 

Bianquis, T., Une crise frumentaire dans 1‘Egypte fatimide, JESHO, 23:67, 
1980 338, 582, 588 

Ibn al-NabulusI, un martyr sunhitc au IV' siecle de l’hegire, Annales islam- 
ologiques, 12:45, 1954 555 


887 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 

La prise du pouvoir par les Fatimides en Egypte, Annales islamologiques, 11:49, 
1972 481-487, 544, 546, 553 

Bios, et al ., Izvestiya russkago arkheologiceskago institute v Konstantinopol, 11:227, 
260, 1906 696 

Bjorkman, W.,Jerusalemim Corpus inscriptionum Arabicarum, Derlslam, 15:96, 
1926 120,246 

Blau, J., The Importance of Middle Arabic Dialects for the History of Arabic, 
Studies in Islamic History and Civilization, Scripta Hierosolymitana, 9:206, 
1961 674 

Blau, L., Diejtidische Ehescheidung, Budapest 1911/2 896 

Blau, O., undj. Stickel, Zur muhammedanischen Numismatik, ZDMG, 11:443, 
1857 367, 476, 486 

Bonwetsch, N., ed., DoctrinaJacobi nuper baptizati, Abhandlungen der koniglichen 

Gesellshaji der Wissenschajten zu Gottingen, philologisch-historische Klasse, N.F. 12, 

no. 3, Berlin 1910 52, 76, 731 

Bore, E., Question des lieux saints, Paris 1850 584 

Bosworth, C. E., Karramiyya, EP 424 
Raja Ibn Haywa al-Kindl and the Umayyad Caliphs, IQ, 16:36,1972 98,153 

Bousquet, G. H., Quelques remarques critiques et sociologiques surla conquete 
arabe et les theories emises a ce sujet, Studi orientalistici G. Levi della Vida, Rome 
1956, 1:52 13 

Brann, M., Kurze Mitteilungen, MGWJ, 62:276, 1918 776 

Braslavski, J., Hat Walld II den Jordan ablenken wollen?, JPOS, 13:97, 
1933 119 

BrStianu, G. I., La fin du regime des partis a Byzance et la crise antisemite au VII' 
siecle. Revue historique du sud-est europeen, 18:49, 1941 9 

Braun, O., Ein Brief des Katholikos Timotheos I fiber biblische Studien des 9. 

Jahrhunderts, Oriens Christianus, 1:299, 1901 921 

Brehier, L., Charlemagne et la Palestine, RH, 157:277,1928 398, 706-707, 709 

L’eglise et VOrient au moyen age 6 , Paris 1928 398, 578, 682, 686, 694, 721, 726 

Vie et mort de Byzance, Paris 1947 566 

Breyer, L., Bilderstreit und Arabersturm in Byzanz 2 , Graz 1964 87, 99, 387, 410, 

418, 686, 707 

Briggs, M. S., Muhammadan Architecture in Egypt and Palestine, Oxford 
1924 106 

Brockelmann, C., Geschichte der arabischen Litteratur 2 , Leipzig 1937-49 
(= GAL) 229, 344, 402, 479, 491, 522, 557, 577, 624, 629, 635, 647, 652- 

653, 746 

Die syrische und christlich-arabische Litteratur, in: Geschichte der christlichen 
Litteraturen des Orients 2 , Leipzig 1909 672 

Brooks, E. W., The Campaign of 716-718, from Arabic Sources, JHS, 19:19, 
1899 97 

Bucknill, J. A. et al., Monnaies orientales, Amsterdam 1928 367 

Bfichler, A., Relation d’Isaac b. Dorbelo sur une consultation envoyee par les Juifs 
du Rhin en Pan 960 aux communautes de Palestine, REJ, 44:237, 1902 736 


888 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Buhl, F., Das Leben Muhammeds, Heidelberg 1954 109 

Burmester, O.H.E., The Egyptian or Coptic Church, Cairo 1967 10 

Bury, J. B., A History of the Late Roman Empire, London 1889 3 

The Imperial Administration System in the Ninth Century, New York 1911 52, 

54, 59 

Busse, H., Chalifund Grosskonig, Wiesbaden 1969 368 

‘Omar b. al-Khattab in Jerusalem, JSAI, 5:73, 1984 81, 606 

The Sanctity of Jerusalem in Islam , Judaism, 17:441, 1968 66, 67 

Caetani, L., Annalidell’Islam, Milano 1905-26 28-29, 33, 35, 41-42, 48, 50-51, 

53, 59, 61, 63, 65, 241, 662 

Cahen, C., L’administration financiere de l’armee fatimide d’apres al-Makhzumi, 
JESHO, 15:163, 1972 335 

Atsiz, EP 603 
Artukids, EP 606 

Bakhtiyar, EP 548 

Day‘a, EP 335 
Dhimma, EP 238 

En quoi la conquete turque appelait-elle la Croisade?, Bulletin de la Faculte des 

Lettres de Strasbourg, 24 (2), 1950 608, 710, 713 

L’evolution de l’iqta‘ du ix e au xiii c siecle, AESC, 8:25, 1953 335 

Futuwwa, EP 478 

Ikta‘, EP 335 

Indigenes et Croises, Syria, 15:351, 1934 276 

An Introduction to the First Crusade, Past and Present, 6:6, 1954 279, 608, 

710 

Note surl’accueil des chretiens de l’Orient a l’lslam, RHR, 166:51,1964 333 

La premiere penetration turque en Asie Mineure, Byzantion, 18:5,1948 603, 

606 

Quelques problemes economiques et fiscaux de l’lraq Buyide d’apres un traite de 
mathematiques, AIEO, 10:326, 1952 241 

Review of: S. D. Goitein, A Mediterranean Society, I, in JESHO, 12:212, 
1969 359 

The Turkish Invasion: The Selchukids, in: A History of the Crusaders, ed. M. W. 
Baldwin, Univ. of Pennsylvania Press, 1955:135 603 

Caietanus, O. (= Gaietani), Vitae sanctorum siculorum, Palermo 1657 723 

Canard, M., La destruction de l’eglise de la resurrection, Byzantion, 35:16, 
1965 569, 672, 697, 701 

Djarrahids, EP 554, 557 

L’expansion arabe: le probleme militaire, Settimane di studio (Spoleto), 12:37, 
1964 61 

Fatimids, EP 464, 543 

al-Hakim, EP 570 

Hamdanids, EP Ml, 548, 557, 559, 567 

Al-Hasan al-A‘sam, EP 548 

Histoire de la dynastie des Hamdanides, Paris 1953 477, 562, 874 


889 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Une lettre de Muhammad Ibn Tugj al-Ihsid, AIEO , 2:189, 1936 484 

La procession du nouvel an chez les fatimides, AIEO, 10:364,1952 357, 553, 

928 

(transl,), Al-Suli, Akhbar al-Radi u>a‘l-Muttaqi, Alger 1946 456, 468, 470, 

475-476, 519, 868 

(transl.). Vie de I’ustadh Jaudhar, Alger 1958 357 

Canonicus Hebronensis, in: RHC (Occ.), V 70 
Caroli Magni Codex diplomatics, in MPL 97 396 

Carra de Vaux, B., Saif al-Dawla, EE All 

Caskel, W., DerFelsendom unddie WahlfahrtnachJerusalem, Koln 1963 105,109, 

153, 419 

Gamharat al-nasab (Hisham b. Muhammad al-Kalbi), Leiden 1966 66 

Cedrenus, Georgius, Synopsis historion (— Compendium historiarum), (1) ed. I. 
Bekker, Bonn 1838/9 ( CSHB ); (2) MPG 122 97, 102, 485, 547, 569, 578, 

595, 597, 689 

Cerulli, E., Etiopi in Palestina, vol. I, Roma 1943 608, 678 

Chabot, J. B., Echos des croisades, AIBL, Comptes rendus, 1938:448 678 

Trois episodes concernant les Juifs tires de la chronique syriaque de Tel-Mahre, 
REJ, 28:290, 1894 72, 102 

Chapira, B., Lettre du gaon Hal a Sahlan b. Abraham de Fostat, REJ, 82:317, 
1926 307, 764, 806-808 

Cheira, M. A., La lutte enlre Arabes et Byzantins, Alexandrie 1947 20 

Christides, V., Arabs as ‘Barbaroi’ before the Rise of Islam, Balkan Studies, 10:315, 
1969 19 

Chronicon anonymutn ad A.C. 1234pertinens, ed.J. B. Chabot, CSCO (Syri), nos. 
36, 37. Transl. I Chabot, J. B., no. 36; Transl. II Abouna, A., no. 154 46, 58, 

62, 69, 607 

Chronicon Monasterii Casinensis in: MGH (SS), VII 722-723 
Chronicon Maroniticum (ed. E. W. Brooks etj. B. Chabot), CSCO (Syri), ser. Ill, t, 
IV 92 

Chronicon Moissiacense, in: MGH (SS), I 397 
Chronicon Paschale, in MPG 116 4, 6 

Chwolsohn, D., Die Ssabier und der Ssabismus, Petersburg 1856 412 

Citarella, A. O., The Relations of Amalfi with the Arab World before the Cru¬ 
sades, Speculum, 42:299, 1967 718 

Clermont-Ganneau, C., Archaeological Researches in Palestine, London 
1896-99 846 

Recueil d’archeologie orientale, Paris 1888-1920 104, 246, 310, 665, 669, 710 

The Taking of Jerusalem by the Persians, PEFQ, 1898:36 7, 668 

Le codex armenien Jerusalem 121, ed. A. Renoux, PO, vol. xxxv (1) [no. 163], 
Turnhout 1969 701 

Codex Theodosianus, ed. T. Mommsen et P. M. Meyer, reprint: Berlin 
1962 122,729 

Cohen, M. R., Jewish Self-Government in Medieval Egypt, Princeton 1980 790, 

792, 809-811, 846, 886, 901, 905, 906, 911 


890 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


New Light on the Conflict over the Palestinian Gaonate, 1038-1042 and on 
Daniel b. ‘Azarya, AJSR, 1:1, 1976 774, 877, 882 

Combe, E., Natte de Tiberiade au musee Benaki a Athenes, Melanges R. Dussaud, 
Paris 1939:841 339 

Constantelos, D. J., The Moslem Conquests of the Near East as Revealed in the 
Greek Sources of the Seventh and the Eighth Centuries, Byzantion, 42:325, 
1972 19, 52, 392, 687, 706, 708 

Constantinus Porphyrogenitus, De administrando imperio, (I) ed. I. Bekker, Bonn 
1840 ( CSHB ); (II) MPG 113: (III) ed. G. Moravcsik, Dumbarton Oaks 
1967 66-67, 81 

Conybeare, F. C., Antiochus Strategos’ Account of the Sack of Jerusalem in AD 
614, EHR, 25:502, 1910 7, 668 

Coiiasnon, C., The Church of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem, London 1974 665 

Couret, A., La Palestine sous les empereurs grecs, Grenoble 1869 2, 18-19, 80, 

107, 297, 353, 661, 669, 680, 847 

La prise de Jerusalem par les Perses, ROC, 2:125, 1897 7, 65, 668 

Cowley, A., BodleianGeniza Fragments, JQR, 18:399,1906; 19:104,1907 868 

Cozza-Luzi, I., ed., Historia etlaudes SS. Sabae etMacarii, auctore Oreste Patriarcha 
Hierosolymitano, Roma 1893 699 

Creswell, K. A. C., Early Muslim Architecture 2 , vol. I (1-2), Oxford 1969 102, 

104-106, 108, 669 

The Origin of the Plan of the Dome of the Rock, British School of Archaeology in 
Jerusalem, Supplementary Papers, 2 (1924) 106 

A Short Account of Early Muslim Architecture, London 1958 116 

Crone, P., Islam, Judeo-Christianity and Byzantine Iconoclasm, JSAI, 2:59, 
1980 97 

Crone, P., and M. Cook, Hagarism, Cambridge 1977 52, 76, 85, 105 

Crowfoot, J. W., Ophel again, PEFQ, 77:66, 1945 847 

Daniel the Monk, Vie et pelerinage, in: Itineraires russes en Orient, ed. B. Khitrowo, 
Geneve 1889 311, 666, 673 

Davidson, I., Poetic Fragments from the Genizah, JQR, 2:221, 1911/2 854 

De Funes, J. A., Coronica de la ilustrissima milicia y sagrada religion de San Juan Bautista 
de Jerusalem, 1, Valencia 1626 718 

De Goeie, M. T., Indices, elossarium et addenda et emendanda, BGA IV, Leiden 
1879 337 

Memoire sur la conquete de la Syrie, Leiden 1900 30, 41, 42, 44, 46-50, 53-54, 

56-58, 60, 63, 65, 67, 69 
Paltiel - Djauhar, ZDMG, 52:75, 1898 561 

De Prima institutione, in: RHC (Occid.), V:401 250, 718 

De Vaux, R., A propos des manuscrits de la Mer morte, RB, 57:417, 1950 921 

Une mosaique byzantine a Ma‘in, RB, 47:227, 1938 674 

Delaborde, H. F., Notre Dame de Josaphat, Paris 1880 839 

Delehaye, H., ed., Passio sanctorum sexaginta martyrum, Analecta Bollandiana, 
23:289, 1904 703 

Demetrius Martyr, Acta, MPG 116 4 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 

Dieterich, K., Byzantlnische Quellen zur Lander u. Volkerkunde, Leipzig 
1912 673 

Diptykha tes en Hierosolymois ekklesias, in: Papadopoulos-Kerameos, I 683-684, 
691 

von Dobschiitz, E., Methodios und die Studiten, BZ , 18:41, 1909 687, 689 
Dolger, F., Besprechung: Ostrogorski, Die Chronologie d. Theophanes, BZ, 
31:350, 1931 87 

Regesten der Kaiserkunden des ostromischen Reiches, Miinchen 1924-65 562, 

597, 672 

Donner, H., Der Felsen und der Tempel, ZDPV, 93:1, 1977 104 

Dositheos, Paraleipomena ek tes historiasperi ton en Hierosolymois patriarkheusanton, in 
Papadopoulos-Kerameos, 1:23 485, 663, 683-686, 690, 694-695 

Dotan, A., Ben Asher’s Creed, Missoula 1977 294 

Douglas, D., The Earliest Norman Counts, EHR, 61:129, 1946 723 

Some Problems of Early Norman Chronology, EHR, 56:289, 1950 723 

Dowling, [T. E.], The Episcopal Succession in Jerusalem, PEFQ, 

1913:164 683 

The Georgian Church injerusalem, PEFQ, 1911:181 680 

Dozy, R., Dictionnaire des tioms des vetements, Amsterdam 1845 112 

Supplement aux dictionnaires arabes, Leiden 1881 358, 376 

Dressaire, L., La basilique de Sainte Marie la Neuve a Jerusalem, EO, 15:234, 
1912 662 

Dubeer, C. E., Sobre la cronica arabigo-bizantina de 741, Andalus, 11:300, 
1946 333 

Du Cange, C., Glossarium Mediae et Infimae Latinitatis, reprint, Graz 1954 52, 

59 

Ducros, A. H., Essai sur le droguierpopulaire arabe des pharmacies du Caire, Cairo 1929 
(M/E, t. 14) 346, 353, 379 

Dummler, E., Ekkehart IV von St. Gallen, Zeitschriji jxir deutsches Altertum, 14:1, 
1869 579 

Duri, A., The Origins oflqta* in Islam, Abhath, 22:3, 1969 335 

Al-Zuhri, BSOAS, 19:1, 1957 162 

Duschinsky, C., The Yekum Purkan, S. Poznanski Jubilee Volume, Warsaw 
1927:182 733 

Dussaud, R., Topographie historique de la Syrie, Paris 1927 44, 297, 301, 330, 

550, 558, 562, 686, 887 

Ecochard, M., A propos du dome du rocher et d’un article de M. Oleg Grabar, 
BEO, 25:37, 1972 106 

Edelby, N., La Transjordanie chretienne des origines aux Croisades, Proche-Orient 
chretien, 6:97, 1956 19 

Ehrhardt, A., Das griechische Kloster Mar-Saba in Palaestina, Romische Quartal- 
schriji, 7:32, 1893 672, 689 

Die griechische Patriarchal-Bibliothek von Jerusalem, Romische Quartalschrift, 
5:217, 1891 674 

Eickhoff, E., Seekrieg und Seepolitik zwischen Islam und Abendland (650-1040), 
Berlin 1966 117 


892 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 

Einhardi Annales, MGH (SS), I, 124-218 396, 666 

Elbogen, I., Der judische Gottesdienst, Frankfurt 1931 111 

Enhardi Fuldensis Annales, in MGH (SS), I, 343—361 397, 681 

Epiphanius, Adversus haereses, in MPG, 41-42 123 

Epiphanius, De mensuribus et ponderibus, in MPG, 43 669 

Epstein, A., Die aharonidischen Geonim Palastina’s und Meschullam b. Mose aus 
Mainz, MGWJ, 47:340, 1903 777, 828, 859 

Revue de l’article de H, D. Muller et D. Kaufmann (Ein Brief...), REJ, 25:272, 
1892 334 

Epstein, J. N., Notes on Post-Talmudic Aramaic Lexicography (II), JQR, NS 
12:299, 1921/2 745 

Euagrius Scholasticus, Ecclesiasticae historiae, MPG 86 (2):2415 19, 847 

Eusebius Pamphili, Onomastikon (ed. E. Klostermann), Leipzig 1904 2 

Every, G., Syrian Christians in Palestine, ECQ, 6:363, 1946 676, 678-679, 700 

Fahmy, A. M., Muslim Naval Organization 2 , Cairo 1966 117 

Festugiere, A. J., Les moines d’Orient, III, Paris 1962 839 

Finkel, J., Recent Books Relating to Arabs, JQR, NS 23:267, 1932/3 238 

Fischel, W. J., Jews in the Economic and Political Life of Mediaeval Islam 2 , London 
1968 549, 561, 888 

Fleischer, E., Contributions hebrai'ques a une meilleure comprehension de quel- 
ques aspects de la poesie europeenne du haut moyen-age, Settimane di studio, 26, 
Spoleto 1980:815 923 

Fleury, C., Histoire ecclesiastique, Avignon 1777 723 

Fredegarius, Chronicon in MGH (Scriptores Merovingicarum), vol. II 10, 395 
Frey tag, G. W., Geschichte der Dynastie der Hamdaniden in Mosul und Aleppo, 
ZDMG, 10:432, 1856; 11:177, 1857 560 

Friedlander, I., Jewish-Arabic Studies, JQR, NS 1:183, 1910/1; 2:481, 1911/2; 
3:235, 1912/3 109, 918, 930 

Jews of Arabia and the Gaonate, JQR, NS 1:249, 1910/11 286 

Friedlander, G., Pirke de Rabbi Eliezer, London 1916 739 

Friedman, M. A., Jewish Marriage in Palestine, Tel Aviv 1981 283, 311, 327, 

329-330, 348, 560, 739, 775, 860, 898, 932, 936, 937 
Master and Slave Girl, Gratz College Annual, 1:56, 1972 733, 898, 909 

The Monogamy Clause in Jewish Marriage Contracts, Perspectives in Jewish 
Learning, vol. IV, Chicago: Spertus College, 1972:20 754 

Review of the Ktav-Edition of J. Mann, Jews in Egypt and in Palestine.. ., 
JAORS, 94:272, 1974 801 

Fuck, J., Documenta islamica inedita, Berlin 1952 701 

Gay, J., L’ltalie meridionale et Vempire byzantin, Paris 1904 699, 721, 723 

Gelzer, M., Studien zur byzantinischen Verwaltung Agyptens, Leipzig 1909 26 

Georgius Cyprius, Descriptio orbis Romani, ed. H. Gelzer, Leipzig 1890 310 

Georgios Monakhos Hamartolos, Khronikon, ed. C. De Boor, Leipzig 1904 (also 
in MPG 110) 687 

Gesta episcoporum Virdunensium, in: MGH (SS), IV 721 


893 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Ghevond, Histoire des guerres et des conquetes des Arabes en Armenie, transl. G. V. 

Shahnazarian, Paris 1856 75 

Gibb, H. A! R., Abu ‘Ubayda b. al-Djarrah, EP 44, 63 
Afamiya, EP 887 

The Fiscal Rescript of 'Umar II, Arabica, 2:1, 1955 238 

Gil, M., The Constitution of Medina, IOS, 4:44, 1974 266 

Documents of the Jewish Pious Foundations from the Cairo Geniza, Leiden 
1976 245, 283, 309, 311, 315, 339, 341, 363, 572, 601, 739, 751, 755, 769, 

775, 782, 793-794, 804-805, 807, 814-815, 835, 851, 877, 909 
The Jews in Sicily under Muslim Rule, Italia Judaica, Rome 1983:87 776 

The Origin of the Jews of Yathrib, JSAI, 4:203, 1984 12, 21, 69, 76 

The Radhanite Merchants and the Land of Radhan, JESHO , 17:299, 
1974 298, 350, 370 

Supplies of Oil in Medieval Egypt, JNES, 34:63, 1975 345, 355 

Gildemeister, J., Beitrage zur Palastinakunde aus arabischen Quellen, ZDPV, 
4:85, 1881:8, 117, 1885 842-843, 874 

Gilo, Ad historiam gestorum, in: RHC (Occ.), V 839, 943 
Ginsburg, C. D., Introduction to the Massoretic Critical Edition of the Hebrew Bible, 
reprint: New York 1966 295 

Ginzberg, L., Geonica, New York 1909 347, 770 

The Legends of the Jews, Philadelphia 1909 et sqq. 21 
Glabri Rudolphi Historiarum liber, in: RHFG X 574 

GofFart, W., The Fredegar Problem Reconsidered, Speculum, 38:206, 1963 10 

Goitein, S. D., Contemporary Letters on the Capture ofjerusalem by the Crusad¬ 
ers, JJS, 3:162, 1952 943 

An Eleventh-Century Letter from Tyre in the John Rylands Library, BJRL, 
54:94, 1971-2 904, 912 

Evidence on the Muslim Poll Tax from Non-Muslim Sources, JESHO, 6:278, 
1963 257 

The Historical Background of the Erection of the Dome of the Rock, JAORS, 
70:104, 1950 105 

A Jewish Business Woman, JQR 7 5th Anniversary Volume, Philadelphia 

1967:225 845, 903 

Jews and Arabs, New York 1964 236 

Judaeo-Arabic Letters from Spain (Early 11th Century), F. M. Pareja Jubilee 
Volume, I. Leiden 1974:331 353 

Letters of Medieval Jewish Traders, Princeton 1973 328, 337, 350, 356, 364, 

375, 377, 380, 382, 384, 753, 823, 882, 906 

A Mediterranean Society, Berkeley 1967 et sqq. 249, 252, 255, 257, 261, 270, 
274, 283, 298, 301, 305, 307, 309, 315, 328, 329, 341-344, 353, 355-356, 
358-359, 361, 363-365, 366, 370, 372, 374, 377, 380, 383, 385, 560-561, 572, 
600, 624, 700, 733, 744, 746, 750, 752, 756, 760, 776, 778-779, 781, 786, 
792-796, 809-811, 816, 823, 839, 845, 855, 860, 866, 870-871, 875, 881, 888, 
892-893, 896, 901, 903-904, 907-909, 911, 914, 916, 927, 932, 935, 936, 945 


894 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


New Sources on the Palestinian Gaonate, S. W. Baron Jubilee Volume, Jerusalem 
1975:503 301, 359, 374, 737, 746, 816, 861, 866 

Petitions to the Fatimid Caliphs from the Cairo Geniza, JQR, NS 45:30, 
1954/5 358, 947 

Sicily and Southern Italy in the Cairo Genizah Documents, Archivio storicoper la 
Sicilia Orientate , 67:9, 1971 776 

Studies in Islamic History and Institutions, Leiden 1966 105 

Tyre-Tripoli-*Arqa, JQR, NS 66:69, 1975 609 

Golb, N., Aspects of the Historical Background ofjewish life in Medieval Egypt, 
in: A. Altmann ed., Jewish Medieval and Renaissance Studies, Harvard 
1967 937 

A Judaeo-Arabic Court Document of Syracuse, AD 1020, JNES, 32:105, 

1973 776 

Legal Documents from the Cairo Genizah, JJS, 20:17, 1958 306 

The Topography ofthejews of Medieval Egypt, JNES, 24:251, 1965; 33:116, 

1974 561, 751, 760 

Goldziher, I., Aus dem mohammedanischen Heiligenkultus in Agypten, Globus, 
71:233, 1897 918 

Melanges judeo-arabes, REJ, 50:182, 1905; 55:54, 1908 298 

Miscellen, Hebraeische Bibliographic, 10:59, 1870 479 

Muhammedanische Studien, Halle 1889/90 112, 462, 797, 917 

Neue Materialien. . ., ZDMG, 50:493, 1896 161 

Uber die Eulogien der Muhammedaner, ZDMG, 50:97, 1896 797 

Uber jiidische Sitten und Gebrauche aus muhammedanischen Schriften, 

MGWJ, 29:302, 355, 1880 46 

Usages juifs d’apres la Iitterature religieuse des Musulmans, REJ, 28:75, 
1894 236 

Die Zdhiriten, Leipzig 1884 917 

Goode, A. D., The Exilarchate in the Eastern Caliphate, 637-1258, JQR, NS 
31:149 1940/1 773, 885 

Gottheil, R., A Decree in Favour of the Karaites of Cairo Dated 1024, A. Harkavy 
Festschrift, St Petersburg 1908:115 783 

An Eleventh-century Document concerning a Cairo Synagogue, JQR, 19:467, 
1907 746 

A Fetwa on the Appointment of Dhimmis to Office, ZA, 26:203, 1912 560 

Some Hebrew Manuscripts in Cairo, JQR, 17:609, 1905 289, 294, 936 

and W. H. Worrell, Fragments from the Cairo Genizah in the Freer Collection, New 
York 1927 839, 859 

Grabar, O., The Umayyad Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem, AO, 3:33, 
1959 106 

Graf, G., Die arabischen Schriften des Theodor Abu Qurra, Padeborn 1910 672 

Geschichte der christlichen arabischen Literatur, Vatican 1940 et sqq. 7, 352, 672, 
674, 701 

Grayzel, S., The Church and the Jews in the xiiith Century, New York, 1966 269 

895 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Greenstone, J. H., The Turkoman Defeat at Cairo, AJSLL, 22:144, 
1905/6 603, 609 

Gregoire, H. and A. M. Kugener, eds., Marc le diacre. Vie de Porphyre, Paris 
1930 337, 676 

Grohmann, A., ed., Arabic Papyri from Ejirbet El-Mird, Louvain 1963 122 

Grousset, Histoire des croisades, I, Paris 1934 943 

Gruber, E. A., Verdienst und Rang, Freiburg 1975 113, 185 

Grumel, V., La chronologie, Paris 1958 683 

Jerusalem entre Rome et Byzance, EO, 38:104, 1939 699 

Guarmani, C., Gl’Italiani in Terra Santa, Bologna 1872 601, 682, 718 

Guerin, V. H., Description geographique, historique et archeologique de la Palestine, 
Paris 1868 et sqq. 392 

Guilland, R., Recherches sur les institutions byzantines, Berlin 1967 54, 59 

Guillaume, A., Further Documents on the Ben Meir Controversy, JQR, NS 
5:543, 1914/5 784-785, 787-789, 849, 852, 922 

Where Was al-Masjid al-Aqsa, Andalus, 18:323, 1953 109 

von Gutschmid, A., Kleine Schriften, II, III, Leipzig 1890, 1892 80, 695 

Guy, P. L. O., Archaeological Evidence of Soil Erosion, IEJ, All, 1954 275 

Haarmann, U., Khumarawayh, EP 460 

Hage, W., Die syrisch-iakobitische Kirche in fruhislamischer Zeit, Wiesbaden 

1966 8,679 

Halphen, L., Le comte d’Anjou au XI e siecle, Paris 1906 722-724 

Hamdani, A., Byzantine-Fatimid Relations before the Battle of Manzikert, Byzan¬ 
tine Studies, 1:169, 1974 566 

A Possible Fadmid Background to the Battle of Manzikert, Ankara Univ. Tarih 
... Dergisi, 6:1, 1968 596, 598 

Hamilton, R. W., Khirbet al-Major, Oxford 1959 117 

The Structural History of the Aqsa Mosque, Oxford 1949 108 

Harkavy, A., Additions et rectifications a l’histoire des Juifs, de Graetz, REJ, 
5:199, 1882 919 

Anan, der Stifter der Karaischen Secte, jf/GL, 2:107, 1899 917 

Mittheilungen aus Petersburger Handschriften, ZAW, 1:150, 1881; 2:73, 
1882 923-925, 926, 938, 940 

Hartmann, R., ‘Askalan, EP (with additions by B. Lewis) 113 
Hassan, Z. M., Ahmad b. Tulun, EP 456 
Les Tulunides, Paris 1933 456 

von Hefele, C. J., Conciliengeschichte, III, Freiburg 1877 681 

Henning, W., Arabisch harag, Orientalia, NS 4:291, 1935 241 

Heraeus, W., Silviae vel potius Aetheriae peregrinatio, Heidelberg 1929 676 

Heyd, W., Histoire du commerce du Levant au moyen-age, reprint, Amsterdam 

1967 348,717 

Hierocles, Synecdemus, Berlin 1866 310 

(Eusebii) Hieronymi Opera Omnia, in MPL, 24—25 21,81-82, 751 

Hinds, M., The Banners and Battle Cries of the Arabs at SifITn (657 AD), 
Al-abhath, 23:3, 1971 222 


896 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Hinz.W., Islamische Masse u. Gewichte, Leiden 1955 34,120,243,330,337-338, 

347, 367, 608, 847 

Lebensmittelpreise im mittelalterlichen Vorderen Orient, Die Welt des Orients, 
2:52, 1954 338 

Hippolytos, Chronikon, ed. A. Bauer, TUGAL, N.F. 29, Leipzig 1905 874 

Hirschberg, J, W. (H.Z.), A History of the Jews in North Africa, Leiden 
1974 790, 881 

The Sources of Moslem Traditions concerning Jerusalem, Rocznik Oriental * 
istyczny), 17:314, 1951/2 105, 109 

Hirschfeld, H., The Arabic Portion of the Cairo Geniza at Cambridge, JQR, 
15:167, 677, 1903; 16:98, 290, 573, 690, 1904; 17:65, 1905 750, 785, 786 

Early Karaite Critics of the Mishnah. JQR, NS 8:157, 1917/8 938 

Literary History of Hebrew Grammarians and Lexicographers, Oxford 1926 938 

New Researches into the Composition and Exegesis of the Qoran, London 
1902 843 

An Unknown Grammatical Work by Abu’l-Faraj Harun, JQR, NS 13:1, 
1922-3 938 

Hitti, P. K., History of the Arabs, London 1964 16 

Horning, R., Six Karaite Manuscripts, London 1889 925, 936 

Honigmann, E., Le convent de Barsauma, Louvain 1954 1 

Orthosia, in PW 36 874 

Die Ostgrenze des byzantinischen Reiches, Bruxelles 1935 482 

Hotzelt, W., Die kirchliche Organisation Palastinas im 7. Jahrh., ZDPV, 66:72, 
1943 661 

Houtsma, M. T., EP 606 

Hrbek, I., Die Slawen im Dienste der Fatimiden, Archiv Orientalni, 21:543, 

1953 561, 564 

Hugo Flaviniacensis, Chronicon, in: MGH (SS), VIII 723 

Hugo Floriacensis, Regum Francorum actus, in: MGH (SS), IX 723 

Hurgronje, C. S., Selected Studies, Leiden 1957 14 

Husik, I., A History of Mediaeval Jewish Philosophy, New York 1969 940 

Idris, H. R., La Berberie Orientale sous les Zirtdes, Paris 1962 384, 882 

Ingulph, Chronicle, Translated by H. T. Riley, London 1854 331, 699, 726 

Joannes Moschus, Pratum spirituale, MPG 87 (3):2868 19 

Isidor Hispalensis, Chronicon, in MPL 83 4 

Isserlin, B. S. J., The Greek Transcriptions of Arabic, The Annual of Leeds 
University Oriental Society, 7:17, 1975 223 

Ivanow, W., Ismaili Tradition concerning the Rise of the Fatimids, Oxford 
1942 466, 547 

Izzedin, M., Harun b. Yahya, EP 455 

Un prisonnier arabe a Byzance au IX' siecle: Harun ibn Yahya, REI 
1941-46:41 455 

Jaffe, P., Regesta Pontificorum Romanorum, Leipzig 1885-88 663 


897 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Janin, R., Basile, patriarche de Jerusalem, in: DHGE, VI, 1141 690 

Les Georgiens a Jerusalem (I), EO, 16:32, 1913 680 

Elie III, patriarche de Jerusalem, in: DHGE, XV, 191 695 

Jarry, J., L’Egypte et l’invasion musulmane, Armales islamologiques, 6:1, 
1966 26 

Heresies et factions en Egypte byzantine, BIFAO, 62:173, 1964 26 

Jastrow, M., A Dictionary of the Targumim .. New York 1943 367 

Jaussen, A., Noms releves au Nedjeb, RB, 3:602, 1906 310 

Jeffery, A., Ghevond’s Text of the Correspondence between ‘Umar II and Leo III, 
HTR, 37:269, 1944 77, 706 

Jeremias, J., Heiligengraber in Jesu Umwelt, Gottingen 1958 668 

Johns, C. N., The Citadel, Jerusalem, QDAP, 14:121, 1950 606 

Joranson, E., The Alleged Frankish Protectorate on Palestine, AHR, 32:241, 
1927 398 

The Great German Pilgrimage of 1064—1065, in: D. C. Munroe Presentation 
Volume, New York 1928:3 726 

Josephus Flavius, Antiquitates Judaicae, Loeb Classical Library, London 1966 et 
sqq. 844 

Jugie, M., Une nouvelle vie et un nouvel ecrit de saint Jean Damascene, EO, 28:35, 
1929 672 

La vie de St Jean Damascene, EO, 23:137, 1924 672 

Juster, J., Les Juifs dans I’Empire romain. New York 1914 269 

Justi, F., Iranisches Namenbuch, Marburg 1895 927 

Kafesoglu, I., A propos du nom Turkmen, Oriens, 11:146, 1958 603 

Kahle, P. E., The Cairo Geniza, Oxford 1959 294 

Masoreten des Western, Stuttgart 1927-1930 289, 342, 894, 927, 936 

Kamenetzky, A. S., Deux lettres de l’epoque du dernier exilarque, REJ, 55:48; 
56:254, 1908 784 

Kandel, S., Getiizai keziratok, Budapest 1909 612 

Karabacek, J., Bericht iiber zwei kufische Miinzfunde, ZDMG, 21:618, 
1867 367 

ed., Papyrus Erzherzog Rainer - Ftihrer durch die Ausstellung, Wien 1894 600 

Karlin-Hayter, P., Arethas’ Letter to the Emir at Damascus, Byzantion, 29/30:281, 
1959/60 701 

Kaufmann, D., Beitrage zur Geschichte Agyptens ausjudischen Quellen, ZDMG, 
51:436, 1897 561, 572 

Die Chronik des Achimaaz von Oria, MGWJ, 40:462, 496, 529, 1896 561 

Kawerau, P., Die jakobitische Kirche im Zeitalter der syrischen Renaissance 2 , Berlin 
1960 678 

Kazimirski, A. (de Biberstein), Dictionnaire arabe-jranpais , Paris 1860 346 

Kessler, C., Above the Ceiling of the Outer Ambulatory in the Dome of the Rock 
in Jerusalem, JR AS, 1964:83 104, 470 

Kister, M. J., "An yadin’, Arabica, 11:272, 1964 39, 239 

The Battle of the Harra, G. Wiet Memorial Volume, Jerusalem 1977:33 231 

A Booth like the Booth of Moses, BSOAS, 25:150, 1962 103 


898 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Haddithu ‘an b. Isra’ila, IOS, 2:215, 1972 69 

Mecca and Tamim, JJESHO, 3:113, 1965 219 

Some Reports concerning al-Ta’if, JSAI, 1:1, 1979 216, 259 

‘You Shall only Set Out for Three Mosques’, Le Museon, 82:173, 1969 109, 

114 

Klein, S., Asya, J. Freimann Jubilee Volume, Berlin 1937:116 2 

Zur Topographie des alten Palastina, ZDPV, 33:26, 1910 310 

Klein-Franke, F., Die Geschichte des friihen Islam in einer Schrift d. Georgios 
Gemistos Pletho, BZ, 65:1, 1972 44 

Kleinclusz, A., La legende du protectorat de Charlemagne sur la terre sainte, Syria, 
7:211, 1926 398 

Kohler, C., Chartes de l’abbaye de Notre Dame de Josaphat, ROC, 7:108, 
1899 483 

Kramers, J. H., al-Mukaddasi, EP 612 

Kraus, P., Hebraische und syrische Zitate in isma'Tlitischen Schriften, Der Islam, 
19:243, 1931 573 

Krauss, S., Talmudische Nachrichten fiber Arabien, ZDMG, 70:321, 1916 25 

von Kremer, A., Notizen, etc., ZDMG, 7:215, 1853 746 

Krumbacher, K., Geschichte der byzantinischen LitteratuF, Miinchen 1897 482, 

700 

Kurtz, E., Bibliografische Notiz, BZ, 7:474, 1898 672 

Review of B. Melionarskii’s Book on Georgios of Cyprus andjohn ofjerusalem 
(St Petersburg 1901), BZ, 11:538, 1902 687 

Kyrillos Skythopolitanus, ed. E. Schwartz, Leipzig 1939 [=TUGAL 49 (2)]. 

Transl. in: Festugiere, A. J., LesMoinesd’Orietit, III, Paris 1962 367, 669, 839 

Labande, E. R., Recherches sur les pelerins dans l’Europe des XI' et XII' siecles, 
CCM, 1:159, 339, 1958 719, 721 

Lagrange, M. J., Epigraphie semitique (5), RB, 6:104, 1897 120 

Lettre de Jerusalem, RB, 3:136, 1894 120 

Lamberti annales, MGH (SS), V 726 

Lamm, C. J., Mittelalterliche Glaser und Steinschnittarbeiten aus dem nahen Osten, 
Berlin 1930 348 

Lammens, H., Le califat de Yazid /", Beirut 1921 50, 92, 94, 411, 941 

Etudes sur le regne du calife Omaiyade Mo'aivia Paris 1908 63, 88, 92-94, 

100, 313, 672 

Lampert von Herschfeld, Lamperti Monachi Hersfeldensis, Annales, Berlin 1970 
(?) 726 

Land, J. P. N., Analecta Syriaca, Leiden 1862 et sqq. 50 
Landauer, S., Zum Targum der Klagelieder, Th. Noldeke Festschrift, Gieszen 
1906:505 731 

Lane-Poole, S., Catalogue oft Oriental Coins in the British Museum, London 1875 et 
sqq. 367, 557, 594 

A History oftEgypt, London 1914 136, 456, 458, 460, 469-470, 473, 476, 486, 

543-544, 564, 575, 598, 607 


899 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Lavoix, H., Catalogue des monnaies musulmanes de la Bibliotheque nationale. III, Paris 
1896 367 

Lazarus, F., Die Haupter der Vertriebenen, Jahrbiicher Jurjiidische Geschichte und 
Literatur, 10:1, 1890 729 

Neue Beitrage zur Geschichte des Exilarchats, MGWJ, 78:279, 1934 732 

Leclercq, H., Bethleem, in: DACL, II 675 
Cana, in: DACL, II 675 

Candidator, in: DACL, II 52 

Kefr-Kenna, in: DACL, VIII 675 
Palestine, in: DACL, XIII 675 

Pelerinages aux lieux saints, in: DACL, XIV 719 
Saint-Sepulcre, in: DTC, XV 665 

Leib, B., Rome, Kiev et Byzance a la fin du XI' siecle, Paris 1924 608, 727 

Le Quien, M., Oriens Christianus III, Paris 1740 65, 485, 569, 574, 662-683, 686 

Leroy, L., Histoire d’Abraham le Syrien, ROC, 14:380, 1909; 15:26, 1910 549 

Le Strange, G., The Lands of the Eastern Caliphate, Cambridge 1930 280, 357, 

358, 497, 502, 526, 577, 790, 794, 920 

Palestine under the Moslems, London 1890 112, 122-123, 244, 284, 297, 309, 

311, 329, 337, 344, 362, 392, 418, 419, 530, 644, 836, 839 
Leszynsky, R., Die Juden in Arabien, Berlin 1910 843 

Lev, Y., The Fatimid Army, AH, 358-427/968-1036 CE, Asian and African Studies 
(Haifa), 14:165, 1980 543 

The Fatimid Vizier Y a‘qub Ibn Killis and the Beginning of the Fatimid Adminis¬ 
tration in Egypt, Der Islam, 58:237, 1981 549 

Levi, I., Une apocalypse judeo-arabe, REJ, 67:178, 1914 104 

Levi-Proven^al, E., Histoire de I’Espagne musulmane, Paris 1950-67 235, 629 

Lewin, B. M., Das Sendschreiben des Rabbi Scherira Gaon , Jahrbuch derjiidisch- 
literarischen Gesellschafi, 7:226, 1909 860 

Lewis, B., An Apocalyptic Vision of Islamic History, BSOAS, 13:308, 
1949/51 76 

Egypt and Syria, in: Cambridge History of Islam, Cambridge 1970,1:175 456 

The Isma'ilites and the ‘Assassins’, in: A History of the Crusades, ed. K. M. 
Setton, Madison 1969:99 328 

On That Day, A. Abel Memorial Volume (Melanges d'islamotogie), ed. P. Salmon, 
Leiden 1974:197 76 

The Origins of Isma'tlism, Cambridge 1940 462 

Paltiel: a note, BSOAS, 30:177, 1967 561 

Lewis, N., New Light on the Negev in Ancient Times, PEQ, 80:102, 
1948 244, 269, 275 

Lichtenstein, H., Die Fastenrolle, HUCA, 8-9:257, 1931—32 848 

Liebermann, F., Ueber ostenglische Geschichtsquellen, Hannover 1892 331 

Loeb, J., Judisch-arabische Aerzte, MWJ, 7:101, 1880 561 

Low, I., Flora der Juden, Wien 1924-34 353 

Lopez, R. S., Silk Industry in the Byzantine Empire, Speculum, 20:1, 1945 355 

Maas, P., Doctrina Jacobi (Review), BZ, 20:573, 1911 52 


900 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 

Mabillon, J., Annales ordinis S. Benedicti, I, Paris 1703 10 

McLaughlin, M. M., The Portable Medieval Reader, New York 1949 726 

Macler, F., Les Armeniens en Syrie et en Palestine, Congres jranfais de la Syrie, II, 
Paris 1919:151 680 

Histoire d’Heraclius (Sebeus), Paris 1904 75 

Macpherson, J. R., The Church of the Resurrection, EHR, 7:417, 669, 
1892 665 

Madelung, W., Fatimiden und Bahrainqarmaten, Der Islam, 34:34, 1959 481, 

545, 548 

Isma'iliyya, EP 462 
Karmatl, EP 463 

Maker, H., Saadia Gaoti, His Life and Works, Philadelphia 1921 471, 784 

Manitius, M., Geschichte der lateinischen Literatur des Mittelalters, reprint, Miinchen 
1959 396 

Mann, J., Les chapitres de Ben Babo'i, REJ, 70:113, 1920 343, 741, 821 

Early Karaite Bible Commentaries, JQR, NS 12:435, 1921-22 11, 669 

Gaonic Studies, Hebrew Union College Jubilee Volume, Cincinnati 1925:248, 
849 559 

Genizah Studies, AJSLL, 46:263, 1929-30 745 

The Jews in Egypt and in Palestine under the Fatimid Caliphs 2 , New York 
1970 83, 274, 288, 296, 299, 301,305, 307, 309, 315, 323-324,328, 330, 339, 

378, 380, 383, 551, 560-561, 572, 575, 579, 589, 595, 729, 738, 745, 763, 765, 

769, 774-777, 779-780, 788, 790, 793, 795-796, 798, 800-810, 815, 817, 827- 

829, 833-834, 848-849, 851-855, 857, 859-860, 864, 866, 871, 875-876, 881- 

882, 884-886, 892, 899-900, 904, 911, 913-916, 922, 927, 930, 933, 941, 946, 

948-950 

Jews (MS), meaning the copy of the previously mentioned book with the 
author’s emendations, kept at the Ben-Zvi Institute, Jerusalem 307, 876, 
885-886 

Listes des livres provenant de la Gueniza, REJ, 72:163, 1921 293 

New Studies in Karaism, Yearbook of the Central Conference of American Rabbis, 

44:220, 1934 852 

Note on Solomon b. Judah and Some of His Contemporaries, JQR, NS 9:409, 
1918/9 856, 859 

Obadya, proselyte normand, etc., REJ, 89:245, 1930 950 

The Responsa of the Babylonian Geonim as a Source of Jewish History, JQR, 
NS 7:457, 1916/7; 8:339, 1917/8; 9:139, 1918/9; 10:121, 309, 1919/20; 11:433, 
1920/1 (=Addenda) 273, 298, 745, 750, 757, 760, 762, 764, 800, 867, 881, 
917, 933 

Texts and Studies in Jewish History and Literature, Cincinnati 1931 11, 83, 86, 

249, 274, 292, 298, 301, 315, 325, 378, 551, 564, 608, 745, 762, 764, 766, 
773-774, 783-784, 795, 797-798, 802, 806, 809, 817, 835, 841-842, 844, 848, 
852, 855, 859, 868, 870-871, 874, 876-877, 879, 881, 884, 892, 896, 912, 915, 
917, 919, 921, 923-927, 929-931, 933, 936-937, 939-940 
A Tract by an Early Karaite Settler in Jerusalem, JQR, NS 12:257, 
1921/2 819, 921-922 


901 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Mansi, G. D., Sacrorum contiUorum nova etamplissima collectio, Paris 1927 46, 97, 

663, 672, 682, 687, 694 

Marcus, J., Studies in the Chronicle of Ahimaaz, PAAJR, 5:85, 1934 937 

Margoliouth, G., Catalogue of the Hebrew and Samaritan Manuscripts in the British 
Museum, London 1899-1915 295, 925 

Mariani Scotti Chronicon, in: MGH (SS), V 726 
Marin, E., Andre de Crete, in DTC, I 684 

Marinus Sanctus dictus Torsellus (Patricius Venetus), Libersecretorumfidelium crucis 
super terrae sanctae, Hanoviae 1611 (Historiae orientalis tomus secundus) 718 
Markon, I., Daniel al-Kumisi, Akademie fur die Wissenschajt des Judentums, Kor- 
respondenzblatt, Berlin 1927: 18 921 

Wer ist der in einem Responsum von Natronay Gaon II erwahnte Karaer Daniel, 
Festschrift M. Schaefer, Berlin 1927:130 919 

Marmorstein, A., Les gueonim en Palestine aux XI' et XII' siecles, REJ, 68:37, 
1914 859 

Notes et melanges, REJ, 73:82, 1921 777, 829 

Solomon b. Judah and Some of His Contemporaries, JQR, NS 8:1, 
1917/8 301, 808, 859 

Martene, E., Thesaurus novus anecdotorum, I. Paris 1717 717 

Martene E., and U. Durand, Veterum scriptorum et monumentorum . . amplissima 
collectio, I, Paris 1724 717 

Martin, (I’abbe) J. P. P., Les premiers princes croises et les Syriens Jacobites de 
Jerusalem, JA, 8' ser., t. 12:471, 1888 678 

de la Martiniere, J., Ademar de Chabannes, in: DHGE, I 724 
Marwick, L., Daniel al-Qumisi and the Pitron Shenem ‘Asar, SBB, 5:42, 
1961 921 

Marx, A., The Importance of the Geniza for Jewish History, PAAJR, 16:183, 
1946/7 867,911 

Studies in Gaonic History and Literature, JQR, NS 1:61, 1910/1 561, 729, 

731, 735-737, 784, 902 

Maspero, J., Organisation militaire de VEgypte byzantine, Paris 1912 26 

Maspero J. and G. Wiet, Materiaux pour servir a la geographic de VEgypte, Cairo 
1919 561 

Matthew of Edessa, The Chronicle, French translation by E, Dulaurier, Paris 
1858 482 

Maximos Simaios, in: Papadopoulos-Kerameos, Analekta III 683, 685, 688, 
690-691, 696, 699 

Meinardus, O. F. A., The Copts in Jerusalem, Cairo 1960 69, 678 

Menander, ed. B. G. Niebuhr et ai, CSHB, XII, Bonn 1829 3 

Mez, A., Die Renaissance des Islams, Heidelberg 1922 255, 269, 276, 284, 344, 

349, 424, 481-482, 835 

Michaud, J., Histoire des croisades, Paris 1849 550, 726 

Michel, A., Humbert und Kerullarios, Padeborn 1930 700 

Milik.J. T., Notes d’epigraphie et de topographic palestiniennes, RB, 67:354, 550, 
1960 665 


902 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


La topographie de Jerusalem vers la fin de l’epoque byzantine, MUSJ, 37:127, 
1961 665,668 

Millas y Vallicrosa, J., Memoris, 1(3), Documents Hebraics, Barcelona 1927 868 

Mingana, A., A Charter of Protection granted to the Nestorian Church in 
AD 1138, by Muktafi II, Caliph of Baghdad, BJRL, 10:127, 1926 746 

Miquel, A., La geographic humaine du inonde mttsulman , Paris 1973 455 

Mitchell, H. W. and S. Levy, A Hoard of Gold Dinars from Ramleh, INJ, 3:37, 
1965/6 486, 548, 562 

Mommert, C., Die Grabeskirche des Modestus nach Arkulfs Bericht, ZDPV, 
20:34, 1897 665 

Monachi Sangallensis degestis Karoli imperatoris, libri duo, MGH (SS), II, 726-763 
(=Notker Balbulus of St Gallen) 396 

Mortes, H., Djawhar al-Sikilli, EP 545 
Monete cufiche, Museo di Milano, Milano 1819 121 

Morrisson, C., Catalogue des monnaies byzantines de la Bibliotheque nationale, II, Paris 
1970 369 

Moscati, S., Abu 'Ubayd Allah, EP 399 
Nuovi studi storici sul califfato di al-Mahdi, Orientalia, NS 15:155, 
1946 101, 399 

Le massacre des Umayyads dans l’histoire et dans les fragments poetiques. 
Archil> Orientalni, 18(3) :88, 1950 972 

Muir, W., The Caliphate, Its Rise, Decline, and Fall, Edinburgh 1924 418 

Munk, S., Notice sur Abou’l-Walid (I), JA, 4 e serie, t. 15:297, 1850 848 

Musca, G., Carlo Magno ed Harun al Rashid, Bari 1963 398 

Musil, A., Edom (Arabia Petraea, vol. II), Vienna 1907/8 310 

Musset, H., Histoire du Christianisme, specialement en Orient., Harissa 
1948/9 682, 686, 688-690, 694, 707-708 

Nagel, T., Untersuchungen zur Entstehung des abbasidischen Kalifates, Bonn 
1972 99 

Nassar, N. G., The Arabic Mints in Palestine and Trans-Jordan, QDAP, 13:121, 
1948 121,548 

Nau, F., Lettre de Jacques d'Edesse, ROC, 6:512, 1901 80 

La didascalie de Jacob , PO, vol. 8(v), 1912 8 

Opuscules maronites, ROC, 4:318, 1899 92, 676 

Sur quelques autographes de Michel le Syrien, ROC, 19:378, 1914 678 

Nemoy, L., Anan b. David, /. Low Memorial Volume, Budapest 1947:239 917, 

919 

The Epistle of Sahl ben Masliah, PAAJR, 38-39:145, 1972 924 

Karaite Anthology, Yale Univ, Press, 1952 
Ness ana: C. J. Kraemerjr. ed., Excavations at Nessana, vol. Ill; Non-Literary Papyri, 
Princeton 1958 36, 88, 122, 131, 135, 223, 243, 275, 310, 676 

Neubauer, A., Aus der Petersburger Bibliothek, Leipzig 1966 83, 551, 925, 933 

Egyptian Fragments, JQR, 8:541, 1896; 9:24, 1897 913, 916 

Elhanan, Son of Shemariah ben Elhanan, JQR, 6:222, 1894 745 

La geographic du Talmud, Paris 1868 916 


903 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 

Neumann, C., Die Weltstellung des byzantinischen Reiches, Leipzig 1894 571 

Nicephori Patriarchae Constantinopolitani Breviarium (ed. Bekker), Bonn 
1837 38 

Nicephorus Callistus Xanthopulus, Historia ecclesiastica (II), in: MPG 146 847 

Nilus, Epistula, in: MPG 79 109 

Noldeke, T., Die von Guidi herausgegebene syrische Chronik, Akademie d, 
Wissenschaften Wien, Sitzungsberichte, 128 (1893), no. 9 8, 80 

Zur Geschichte der Araber im 1. Jahrh, a. H. aus syrischen Quellen, ZDMG, 
29:76, 1875 58, 60, 61, 92 

Zur Topographie und Geschichte des Damascenischen Gebietes und der Hau- 
rangegend, ZDMG, 29:419, 1876 44 

Norberti Abbatis Vita Bennonis II (Osnabriick) in: Lebensbesckreibungen einiger 
Bischofe, ed. and transl. H. Kallfelz, Darmstadt 1973 724 

Noth, A., Quellenkritische Studien zu Themen, Formen und TendenzenJriihislamischer 
Geschichtstiberlieferung, Bonn 1973 66, 69, 72 

Oestrup,J., Uber zwei arabische Codices sinaitici, ZDMG, 51:453, 1897 100, 

674 

Ostrogorsky, G., History of the Byzantine State, New Brunswick 1957 87 

Padwick, C. E., al-Ghazali and the Arabic Versions of the Gospels, MW, 29:130, 
1939 674 

Palmieri, A., Filioque, in DTC, VIII 681 

Papadopoulos-Kerameos, A., Analekta Hierosolymitikes Stakhyologias (reprint), 
Bruxelles 1963 102, 413, 574, 683, 704, 707, 709, 714 

Historia tes ekklesias Hierosolymon, Jerusalem 1900 683-685, 694, 706 

Pargoire, J., L'eglise byzantine, Paris 1905 661, 663, 669, 681, 684, 687, 689, 

700 

Les LX soldats martyrs de Gaza, EO, 8:40, 1905 703 

Paul, A., Ecrits de Qumran et sectes juives aux premiers siecles de l’Islam, Paris 
1969 921 

Peeters, P., La prise de Jerusalem par les Perses, Melanges de I’Universite Saint 
Joseph, 9:3, 1923/4 7 

Un nouveau manuscrit arabe du recit de la prise de Jerusalem par les Perses en 
614, Anal. Boll., 38:137, 1920 7 

La passion de S. Pierre de Capitolias, Anal. Boll., 57:299, 1939 705 

Le trefonds oriental de I’hagiographie byzantine, Bruxelles 1950 7, 668,676, 680, 

696, 706 

Pellat, C., Harthama b. A'yan, EF 394 

Peradze, G., An Account of the Georgian Monks and Monasteries in Palestine, 
Georgica, 4-5:181, 1937 680 

Perles, J., Die Berner Handschrift des Kleinen Aruch, H. Graetz Jubelschrift, 
Breslau 1887:1 736 

Pernice, A., L’imperatore Eraclio, Firenze 1905 51, 53 

Pertusi, A., La Persia nelle fonti bizantine ..., in La Persia nel medioevo, Roma 
1971 8 

Petit, L., Jean de Jerusalem, in: DTC, VIII 687 


904 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Petri Tudebodi Historia, in: RHC (Occ.), Ill 943 

Petrides, S., Le monastere des Spoudaei a Jerusalem et les Spoudaei de Constanti¬ 
nople, EO, 4:225, 1900-1901 665, 687 

Poliak, A. N., L’arabisation de l’Orient semitique, REI, 12:35, 1938 224 

Polotsky, H. J., Manichaismus, PW, Suppl. VI:240 109 

Porges, N., Eine Geniza-Studie, JQR, 20:187, 1908 745 

Note sur 1’ouvrage Horayat ha-kore REJ, 23:308, 1891 776 

Poznanski, S., Aboul-Faradj Haroun ben al-Faradj, REJ, 33:24, 197, 1896 938 

Anan et ses ecrits, REJ, 44:162; 45:50, 1902 76, 917-919, 930 

Babylonische Geottim im nachgaonaischen Zeitalter, Berlin 1914 773, 777, 779, 

859, 860, 916, 926-927 

Ben Meir and the Origin of the Jewish Calendar, JQR, 10:152, 1898 917 

Contribution a l’histoire des gueonim palestiniens, REJ, 51:52, 1906 853 

Deux listes commemoratives de la Gueniza, REJ, 66:60, 1913 301, 857, 859 

Ephraim b. Shemaria de Fostat, REJ, 48:145, 1904 737, 803 

Ginzberg’s ‘Geonica’, JQR, NS 3:397, 1912-13 728 

Jacob ben Ephraim, ein antikaraischer Polemiker des X. Jahrhunderts, 
Gedenk- buck zur Erinnerung an David Kaufmann, Breslau 1900: 169 740 

Die judischen Artikel in Ibn al-Qifti’s Gelehrtenlexikon, MGWJ, 49:41, 
1905 561 

The Karaite Literary Opponents of Saadiah Gaon in the Tenth Century, JQR, 
18:209, 1906; 19:59, 1907; 20:74, 1908 735, 825, 923-924, 926, 938, 940 

Karaite Miscellanies, JQR, 8:681, 1896 921 

II nome Meborak, Rivista israelitica, 7:172, 214, 1911 916 

Notes et melanges, REJ, 67:288, 1914 591 

Nouveaux renseignements sur Abou-l-Faradj Haroun ben al-Faradj et ses ouv- 
rages, REJ, 56:42, 1908 938 

Schechter’s Saadyana, ZJhB, 7:107, 142, 178, 1903 859 

Sur les deux lettres de l’epoque du dernier exilarque, REJ, 55:244, 1908 784 

Sur quelques noms propres dans les documents de la Gueniza, REJ, 
65:1913 896 

Prawer,J., The Jerusalem the Crusaders Captured, P. W. Edburyed., Crusade and 
Settlement, Cardiff 1985 595 

The Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem, London 1972 944 

Preisigke, F., Namenbuch, Heidelberg 1922 44 

Procopius Caesarensis, De aedificiis (Lob) 669, 680 
Procopius Caesarensis, De hello Persico (Lob) 2, 52 

Prokopios Monakhos Nazianzenos, in: Papadopoulos-Kerameos, Analekta, 

III 683-688, 690-691, 696 

Prutz, H., Kulturgeschichte der Kreuzziige, Berlin 1883 672 

Quellen zur bayrischen und deutschen Geschichte, I, Munchen 1856 484, 722 

Quellen des 9. u. 1 i.Jhd. zur Geschichte der hamburgischen Kirche und des Reiches, 
Darmstadt 1961 723-725 

Rabin, C., Qumran Studies, Oxford 1957 921 

905 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Reifenberg, A., Caesarea, a Study in the Decline of a Town, IEJ, 1:20, 
1950/1 330 

Renaudot, E., Historia patriarcharum Alexandrinorum Jacobitamm, Paris 
1713 569 

Repertoire chronologique d’epigraphie arabe, Cairo: IFAO, 1931, et sqq. 120, 246, 
303, 304, 314, 358, 392, 419, 470, 487, 505, 508, 594 
Rey, E-, Les dignitaires dela principaute d’Antioche, ROL, 8:116, 1900/1 676, 

678 

Riant, M., La donation de Hugues ..., MAIBL, 31 (2):151, 1884 395, 398, 

484-485, 717-718, 722 

Inventaire critique des lettres historiques des croisades, AOL, 1:1, 
1881/3 398, 574, 663, 681-682, 694, 697, 699, 701, 715-716, 726 

Invention de la sepulture des patriarches Abraham, Isaac et Jacob a Hebron, 
AOL , 2:411, 1884 70 

Richard, J., Quelques textes sur les premiers temps de l’eglise latine de Jerusalem, 
Melanges Clovis Brunei, Paris 1955, 11:420 670, 680 

Riess, Zur Baugeschichte des Felsendomes in Jerusalem, ZDPV, 11:197, 
1888 103 

Riley-Smith, J., The Knights of St. John in Jerusalem and Cyprus, London 
1967 718 

Rohricht, R., Die Deutschen irn Heiligen Lande, Innsbruck 1894 719 

Rosen-Ayalon, M. and A. Eitan, Ramlah (excavations), IEJ, 16:148, 
1966 116,339 

Rosenthal, F., A History of Muslim Historiography 2 , Leiden 1968 630 

Ibn Hamdun, EP 746 

Rotter, G., Abu Zur‘a ad-Dimasql. . . Welt des Orients, 6:80, 1970/1 434 

Rudolph, W., Die Abhdngigkeit des Qorans von Judentum und Christentum, Stuttgart 
1922 843 

Runciman, S., Charlemagne and Palestine, EHR, 50:601, 1935 398 

A History of the Crusades, London 1965 943 

The Pilgrimages to Palestine before 1095, in: A History of the Crusades, ed. K. M. 
Setton, Madison 1969, 1:68 663, 719, 721, 722 

Saige, G., Del’anciennetedel’hopitalS. Jean de Jerusalem, Bibliotheque de I’ecole des 
chartes, 25:552, 1864 717, 718 

Sailer, S. J., An Eighth-Century Christian Inscription at Quweisme, near Am¬ 
man, Trans-Jordan, JPOS, 21:138, 1948 674 

Samonas, Dialexis pros Akhmed ton Sarakenon, in: MPG, 120:821 674 

Scanlon, G. T., Leadership in the Qarmatian Sect, BIFAO, 59:29, 1960 548, 

553 

Schacht, J., Aman, EP 228 

al-Awza‘I, EP 114 
Ibn al-Qaysaram, EP 634 
An Introduction to Islamic Law, Oxford 1964 40 

Schechter, S., Geniza Specimens, JQR, 13:218, 1901 745, 848, 904 

Schefer, C., in: Documents divers, AOL, 1:587, 1881-83 668 


906 



bibliographical index 


Scheiber, A., DreiBriefe von Osten, Acta Orientalia (Hung.), 17:217, 1964 905 

Salomon b. Nachum al-Baradanis Begriissungsgedicht an Abraham Netira, 
Acta Orientalia (Hung.), 30:341, 1976 298 

Schick, C., Beit al-Makdas, Jerusalem 1887 842 

The Muristan, or the Site of the Hospital of St John at Jerusalem, PEFQ, 
1902:42 718 

Schlauch, M., Medieval Narrative, New York 1969 397 

Schlumberger, G., L’epopee byzantine, Paris 1896-1905 550, 569, 578 

von Schonbom, C., Sophrone de Jerusalem, Paris 1972 8-9, 56, 65, 718 

Schreiner, M., Notes surlesjuifs dans l’Islam, REJ, 29:206, 1894 271 

Schroter, R., Trostschreiben Jacob’s von Sarug an die himjaritischen Christen, 
ZDMG, 31:361, 1877 730 

Schiirer, E., Geschichte des jiidischen Volkes im Zeitalter Jesu Christi, Leipzig 
1901 82 

Schwab, M., Les manuscrits du Consistoire israelite de Paris, REJ, 64:118, 
1912 886, 905 

Textes judeo-egyptiens, REJ, 70:44, 1920 299 

Khirbat Mafjar, Greek Inscribed Fragments, QDAP, 12:20, 1946 117 

Schwarz, U., Amalfi im Jriihen Mittelalter, Tubingen 1978 718 

Searle, W. G., Ingulf and the Historia Croylandensis, Cambridge 1894 331 

Serjeant, R. B., Material for a History of Islamic Textiles, in: AI, 9-16 (1942— 
51) 339, 349, 355, 358 

Sezgin, F., Geschichte des arabischeti Schrijitums, Leiden 1967 et sqq. 57, 72, 111, 
159, 162, 166, 344, 389, 405, 409, 430, 434, 439, 443, 489, 492, 556, 613, 643, 
647, 654, 702 

Shaban, M. A., The ‘Abbdsid Revolution, Cambridge 1970 100, 153 

Islamic History, Cambridge 1971 44, 64, 126, 223, 235 

Shaked, S., A Tentative Bibliography of Geniza Documents, Paris 1964 298 

Shamma, S., The Coinage of the Tulunids in Filastln, Abhdth, 24:43, 1971 367 

Sharf, A., Byzantine Jewry, London 1971 8, 376, 484 

Sharon, M., An Arabic Inscription from the Time of the Caliph ‘Abd al-Malik, 
BSOAS, 29:367, 1966 120 

Sharon, M., Arabic Inscriptions from the Excavations at the Western Wall, I If, 
23:214, 1973 595, 671 

An Inscription from the Year 65 A.H., in the Dome of the Rock, D. H. Baneth 
Memorial Volume, Jerusalem 1979:245 104 

al-Khalfl, EP 112 

Passover or Easter? A Study of an Arabic Inscription from Ramla, Arabic and 
Islamic Studies (Bar-Ilan), 2:31, 1978 282 

A Waqf Inscription from Ramlah, Arabica, 13:77, 1966 . 282 

Sigeberti chronica, in: MGH (SS), VI 723, 726 

Sivan, E., The Fada’il al-Quds Literature, IOS, 1:263, 1971 110, 617, 620, 630 

L’lslam et la croisade, Paris 1968 603 

Sobernheim, M., Ibn Shaddads Darstellung der Geschichte Baalbeks, Centenario 
Michele Amari, Palermo 1910, 11:152 588 


907 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Sobhy, G., Common Words in the Spoken Arabic of Egypt of Greek or Coptic Origin, 
Cairo 1950 338 

Sophocles, E. A., Greek Lexicon of the Roman and Byzantine Periods, Harvard 
1914 54, 59 

Sourdel, D., Bugha al-Sharabi, EP 422 
al-Djardjara’I, EP 592, 882 
Dulflk, EP 297 

Humayma, EP 100 
Le vizirat ‘abbaside, II, Damas 1960 475 

Sourdel-Thomine, J., Buza‘a, EP 300 

Sperber, J., Die Schreiben Muhammads an die Stamme Arabiens, Mitteilungen des 
Seminars fiir orientalische Sprockett zu Berlin, 19(2): 1, 1916 
Spuler, B., Die morgenldndischen Kirchen, Leiden 1964 679 

Starr, J., An Iconodulic Legend and Its Historical Basis, Speculum, 8:500, 
1933 97 

The Jews in the Byzantine Empire, Athens 1939 269, 355, 376, 484, 829, 937 

Notes on the Byzantine Incursions into Syria and Palestine, Archin Orientalni, 
8:91, 1936 550 

Steinschneider, M., Apocalypsen mit polemischer Tendenz, ZDMG, 28, 627, 
1874 76, 80, 119, 596 

An Introduction to the Arabic Literature of the Jews, JQR, 13:92, 296, 446, 
1900/1901 286 

Polemische und apologetische Literatur in arabischer Sprache, Leipzig 1877 ( Abhand- 
lungen fiir die Kunde des Morgenlandes herausgegeben von der deutschen morgenldnd¬ 
ischen Gesellschafi VI, no. 3) 923 

Stem, S. M., ‘Abdallah b. Maymun, EP 462 
An Embassy of the Byzantine Emperor to the Fatimid Caliph al-Mu‘izz, By- 
zantion, 20:239, 1950 239, 241 

Fatimid Decrees, London 1964 783 

A Petition to the Fatimid Caliph al-Mustansir Concerning a Conflict within the 
Jewish Community, REJ, 128:203, 1969 877, 880 

Shekel, J. G., Ergiinzungen . . ., ZDMG, 39:17, 1885; 40:81, 1886 121 

Stratos, A. N., Byzantium in the Seventh Century, II, Amsterdam 1972 44, 58, 

69, 72 

Strauss, (Ashtor), E., The Social Isolation of Ahl adh-Dhimma, Etudes orientates d 
la memoire de Paul Hirschler, Budapest 1950:73 236 

Strehlke, E., Uber byzantinische Erzthiiren des xi. Jahrhunderts in Italien, Zeit- 
schrifi fiir christliche Archaologie und Kunst 2:100, 1858 718 

Strika, V., Qasr at-Tubah. Considerazioni sull’abitazione ommiade, Accademia 
nazionale dei Lined, Rendiconti, ser. 8, vol. 23:69, 1968 117 

Strzygowski, J., Felsendom und Aksamoschee, Der Islam, 2:79, 1911 106 

Sukenik, E. L., The Ancient Synagogue of el-Hammah, JPOS, 15:101, 
1935 367 

Le synaxaire arabe jacobite, in PO vols. I, III, XI, XVI, XVII, XX 10, 572 
Theophanes Confessor, Chronographia (ed. C. De Boor) Leipzig 1883 4, 7, 30, 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


48-49, 51, 58, 61, 65, 67, 69, 81, 87, 92, 97, 99, 387, 410, 418, 685-687, 704-705, 
707 

Thietmari Chronicon, in: MGH (SS), III 722 

Till, W., Die Arzneikunde der Kopten, Berlin 1951 350 

Tkatsch, J., Sokotra, EP 346 

Tobler, T., Descriptiones Terrae Sanctae, Leipzig 1874 284, 839 

Dritte Wanderung nach Paldstina, Gotha 1859 668 

Golgatha, St Gallen 1851 398, 709, 714 

Itinera et descriptiones Terrae Sanctae, Geneve 1877 668, 847 

Palaestinae Descriptiones, St Gallen 1869 668, 678 

Topographie von Jerusalem, Berlin 1853/4 668, 680, 846 

Tobler, T., et A. Molinier, Itinera Hierosolytnitana, Geneve 1877/80 82, 103, 

256, 260, 284, 297, 309, 311,322, 352, 456, 664, 665, 673-675, 680, 694, 701, 721 
Toussoun, O., Memoire sur les anciennes branches du Nil, MIE 4, 1922 596 

Tritton, A. S., The Caliphs and Their Non-Muslim Subjects, London 1930 238, 

266, 270-271 

Non-Muslim Subjects of the Muslim State, JRAS, 1942:36 246 

Troupeau, G., Catalogue des manuscrits arabes, Paris 1972 674 

Tsafrir, Y., Muqaddasi’s Gates ofjerusalem, IEJ, 27:152, 1977 669, 847 

Udovitch, A. L., Formalism and Informalism in the Social and Economic Insti¬ 
tutions of the Medieval Islamic World, in: A. Banani and S. Vryonis (eds.), 
Individualism and Conformity in Classical Islam, Wiesbaden 1977 371, 380, 

383, 832, 883 

Urbach, E. E., The Sages, Jerusalem 1975 831, 835 

Vailhe, S., Les ecrivains de Mar-Saba (II), EO, 2:33, 1898-99 689 

Les Juifs et la prise de Jerusalem en 614, EO, 12:15, 1909 8 

Le Monastere de Saint Sabas (II), EO, 3:18,1899-900 663, 672, 689, 704, 709 

Saint Michel le syncelle et les deux freres Graph, ROC, 6:313, 1901 672, 

681, 689, 708, 709 

Vajda, G., Le commentaire kairouanais sur le livre de la creation, REJ, 107:99, 
1946/7 293 

Deux commentaires karaites sur VEcclesiaste, Leiden 1971 551, 837 

Index general des manuscrits arabes musulmans de la Bibliotheque nationale de Paris, 

Paris 1953 479 

Un traite de polemique christiano-arabe contre les Juifs, BIRHT, 15:137, 
1969 286 

Van Berchem, M., La chaire de la mosquee d’Hebron et le martyrion de la tete de 
Husein a Ascalon, Festschrift E. Sachau, Berlin 1915:298 304 

Inscriptions arabes de Syrie, MIE, 3:417, 1900 120, 392, 419 

Van Ess, J., Les Qadarites et la Gailanla de Yazld III, SI, 31:269, 1970 98, 389 

Vasiliev, A. A., History of the Byzantine Empire, Madison 1961 3, 12, 16, 26, 72, 

87, 418, 661, 726 

Vatikiotis, P. J., Al-Hakim bi-Amrillah: The God-king idea realized, IC, 29:1, 
1955 575 


909 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


The rise of Extremist Sects and the Dissolution of the Fatimid Empire in Egypt, 
IC , 31:17, 1957 464 

Veccia Vaglieri, L., The Patriarchal and Umayyad Caliphates, in: The Cambridge 
History of Islam, I (P. M. Holt et al., eds.; Cambridge 1970):57 12 

Vidal, F. S., Hasa, EP 550 

Vincent, H., Notes d’epigraphie palestinienne, RB, 12:271, 1903 120 

Vincent, L. H. and F. M, Abe\, Jerusalem, vol. II, Paris 1914—22 398, 483, 665, 

668, 678, 701, 706, 841 
Emmaiis, Paris 1932 55, 74 

Vincent, L. H., E. J. H. Mackay, and F. M. Abel, Hebron, le haram al-khaltl, Paris 
1923 304, 944 

Vita S. Gregorii Chozebitae- auctore Antonio eius discipulo, Analecta Bollandiana, 
7:95, 1888 19 

Vogt, E., Vom Tempel zum Felsendom, Biblica, 55:23, 1974 81 

de Vogue, M., Les eglises de la Terre Sainte, Paris 1860 678, 712, 839 

Von Grunebaum, G. E., Classical Islam, London 1970 396, 603 

Medieval Islam 2 , Chicago 1969 77 

Voobus, A., History of Asceticism in the Syrian Orient, Louvain 1958 126 

Walker, J., A Catalogue of the Arab-Byzantine and Post-Reform Umaiyad Coins, 
London 1956 121 

Walker, P. E., A Byzantine Victory over the Fatimids at Alexandretta (971), 
Byzantion, 42:431, 1972 547, 550 

The ‘Crusade’ of John Tsimisces in the Light of New Arabic Evidence, By- 
zanion, 47:301, 1977 553 

Walzer, R., al-Farabl, EP 478 

Watt, W. M., Abu Bakr, EP 43 

Economic and Social Aspects of the Origin of Islam, IQ, 1:90, 1954 13 

al-Ghazall, EP 633 

Muhammad at Medina, Oxford 1962 204, 209, 211, 213-214, 216-217, 219, 

221-222 

Weiss, G., Hillel b. Eli (MA thesis). University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 
1967 912 

Weisz, M., Geniza-Fragmente, Budapest 1924 853 

Wensinck, A. J., al-Nasa’I, EP 490 

White, L., Jr., A Forged Letter on Latin Monks at St Mary’s Jehoshaphat, Specu¬ 
lum, 9:404, 1934 667 

Widrici Vita S. Gerardi episcopi, in: MGH (SS), IV 722 
Wieder, N., The Judean Scrolls and Karaism, London 1962 83, 820, 824, 826, 

921, 933, 935-936 

Wiet, G., L'Egypte arabe , Paris n.d. 569, 574, 578, 588, 594, 597 

Un proconsul fatimide de Syrie: Anushtakin Dizbiri, MUSJ, 46:385, 
1970 584, 592 

Wild, S., Libanesische Ortsnameti, Wiesbaden, 1973 874 

Willermus Tyrensis, Archiepiscopus, Historiae, in: RHC, (Occid.), I 250, 330, 
397,569,597,601,677,712,716,718 


910 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL INDEX 


Worman, E. J., Forms of Address in Genizah Letters, JQR, 19:721, 1907 779, 

859 

Notes on the Jews in Fustat, JQR, 18:1, 1906 809 

Wiistenfeld, F., Geschichte der Fatimiden-Chalifen, Gottingen 1881 553, 557 

Geschichte der Stadt Mekka, reprint: Beirut 1964 577 

Die Statthalter von Agypten, Gottingen 1875/6 90, 387, 388, 410, 416, 460, 

469, 474, 476 

Yellin, A., Cairo Genizah Fragments in the Jerusalem National Library, JPOS, 
4:122, 1924 936 

Zagarelli, A., Historische Skizze der Beziehungen Grusiens zum heiligen Lande 
und zum Sinai, ZDPV, 12:35, 1889 680 

Zakkar, S., The Emirate of Aleppo, Beirut 1971 599 

Zetterstein, K. V., Ridwan, EP 606 
Ziade, I., Syriens; eglise, in DTC, XIV 679 

Zonaras, I., Epitome historion, ed. Pinder, Bonn 1841-97 ( CSHB ) 102, 597, 689 

Zunz, L., Die gottesdienstlichen Vortrdge der Juden, Fkft. a. M. 1892 728 

Die Ritus des synagogalen Gottesdienstes 2 , Berlin 1919 776 



General index 

W 

Entries are indexed by section numbers (inclusive of the notes) rather than page numbers 

Numbers in italics refer to sections in which a more substantial discussion or 
information is found 


Aaron, Ascalon 308 
Aaron ha-Kohen Gaon 852, 853 
Aaron ha-Kohen ha-rosh 853 
Aaron the physician al-Kaziruni 835 
Aaron ha-Kohen b. ‘Amram, Jerusalem 
930 

Aaron b, ‘Amram, a Jewish financier of 
Baghdad 789 

(Abu Nasr) Aaron b. Ephraim he-haver b. 
‘Ell 865 

Aaron the cantor ha-murnhe b. Ephraim b. 

Tarasun 790, 805, 879, 884, 905 
(Ibn Abl Rujayf) Aaron b. Jacob, Tyre 348 
Aaron ha-Kohen ‘the fourth’ b. Joseph 
Gaon 853 

Aaron (Khalaf) Gaon b. Joseph b. Sarjada 
488, 797, 853, 926 
Aaron b. Josiah Gaon 857 
Aaron Gaon b, Meir Gaon 301, 738, 7 85, 

7 86, 787, 849, 850, 852, 868, 920, 926 
Aaron b, Mevorakh, Jaffa 331 
Aaron b, Moses b. Asher, masorete 188, 
289, 292, 294, 342 
Aaron b, Nahum 311 
Aaron (Harun) ibn Saghlr of al-Qahira, a 
Karaite 936 

(Abu Mansur) Aaron (Harun) b. Sahl 
al-Tustarl 927 

Aaron he-haver b, Tobiah ‘the third’, 
Jerusalem 855, 884 
(Abu ‘Uthman) Aban b. Marwan, 
governor 126 

Aban b. Sa'Id b, al-‘As 54, 175 
(Abu Bakr) Aban ibn Salih ibn ‘Umayr ibn 
‘Ubayd 173 

Abaye, one of Mar Zutra’s descendants (?) 
849 

‘Abbad b. Kathlr 198 
‘Abdan, brother-in-law of Hamdan 
Qarmat 463 

‘Abbas b. ‘All ibn Abl Talib 487 


‘Abbas b. Muhammad, of the Abbasids’ 
family 418 

‘Abbasa, daughter of al-Mahdl 393 
Abbasids 1, 95, 100, 101, 112, 116, 267, 
268, 386, 387, 388, 390, 392, 394, 395, 
410, 414, 417, 441, 450, 455, 460, 464, 
469, 470, 473, 476, 488, 494, 511, 550, 
554, 556, 562, 577, 603, 661, 707, 785, 
809, 917, 922, 941 
‘Abd al-‘Az!z al-MaqdisI 423 
‘Abd al-‘AzIz b, Ahmad al-Nasibinl 630 
‘Abd al-‘Az!z b. al-Nu‘man 561 
‘Abd al-Hakam, Egyptian Official 721 
‘Abd al-Hakam ibn A‘yun ibn al-Layth 178 
‘Abd al-Jabbar b. Abl ‘Amir al-Sihilllnl 
(al-Sijilllnl), Ascalon 530 
(Abu’l-Qasim) ‘Abd al-Jabbar b, Ahmad 
b. Yusuf al-RazI 626 
‘Abu 'Amt (or: Abu’l-Sabah) ‘Abd al- 
Jabbar b. ‘Umar 452 
‘Abdallah, father of the prophet 
Muhammad 18 

‘Abdallah, father of Shurahbll b. Hasana 44 
‘Abdallah, Harun al-Rashld’s envoy to 
Charlemagne 396 

‘Abdallah b. ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Hujayra 
al-Khawlani, cadi 236 
(Abu’l-Munajja) ‘Abdallah b. ‘All, 

Qarmatl chief 548 

‘Abdallah b. ‘All, al-Saffah’s uncle 101, 

388, 707 

(the cadi Abu Muhammad) ‘Abdallah b. 
‘All (= Ibn ‘Iyad) ‘Ayn al-Dawla ibn 
Abl ‘Aqil, Tyre 298, 360, 381, 610, 
611, 801, 889, 899, 909 
‘Abdallah b. ‘Amr 143 
‘Abdallah b. ‘Amr 460 
‘Abdallah b. ‘Amr ibn al-‘As 164 
(Abu’l-Qasim) ‘Abdallah b. ‘Awf 152 
(Abu Ahmad) ‘Abdallah b. Bakr b. 
Muhammad, Tiberias 644 


912 



INDEX 


(Abu Bishr; or: Bisr) ‘Abdallah b. Fayruz 
186 

‘Abdallah b. Hawala 170 
‘Abdallah b. Idris al-Ja‘fari 583 
‘Abdallah b. Khalid b. Yazld b. Mu‘awiya 
410 

‘Abdallah b. Marwan b. Muhammad 388 
‘Abdallah b. Mawhib 146 
‘Abdallah b. Maymun al-Qaddah 462 
(Abu ‘Abd al-Rahman) ‘Abdallah b. 
al-Mubarak b. Wadih al-Hanzall 
al-Tamlml 443 

‘Abdallah b. Muhammad b. Abl’l-Sarl, 
Ascalon 528 

(Abu Hashim) ‘Abdallah b. Muhammad 
ibn al-Hanafiyya 100 
(Abu’l-Qasim) ‘Abdallah b. Muhammad 
b. Ja'far al-QazwInl, cadi of Ramla 
516 

‘Abdallah b. Muhammad b. Muslim 
al-Faryabl 435, 502 
‘Abdallah b. Muhammad b, Tuwayt, 
Ramla 523 

‘Abdallah b. Muhayrlz 163 
‘Abdallah b. Muslim ibn Qutayba 426 
‘Abdallah b. Rawaha 29 
(Abu Muhammad) ‘Abdallah b. al-Sa‘dI 
182 

(Abu Yusuf) ‘Abdallah b. Salam 79, 156 
‘Abdallah b, Shawdhib 389 
‘Abdallah ibn Tahir, Abassid commander 
411, 414, 714, 914 

(Abu Muslim) ‘Abdallah b. Thawb 181 

‘Abdallah b. Tughj 473 

(Akhu Muslim Abu Muhammad) 

‘Abdallah ibn ‘Ubaydallah 481, 547, 
548 

‘Abdallah b. Ubayy 141 
‘Abdallah b. ‘Umar 117, 143 
‘Abdallah b. ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab 164 
‘Abdallah b, al-Walld al-Ansari, Jerusalem 
616 

‘Abdallah b. Wuhayb, Gaza 536 
‘Abdallah b. Yazld 93 
‘Abdallah ibn Zubayr 89, 93, 95, 105, 136 
‘Abd al-Malik b. Marwan, caliph 58, 71, 
86, 93, 94, 95, 97, 103, 104, 105, 108, 
109, 114, 117, 126, 137, 150, 151, 153, 
155, 162, 193, 231, 269, 419, 704, 918 
(Abu ‘Awn) ‘Abd al-Malik b. Yazld 387 
‘Abd al-Qadir (father of Qayn) see: Qayn 
b. ‘Abd al-Qadir 
(Abu Yahya) ‘Abd al-Rahlm b. 

Muhammad al-Fariql, preacher in 
Ramla 577 

(Abu Umayya) ‘Abd al-Rahman al-Sindl 
195, 389 


‘Abd al-Rahman b. Ghanm 184 
(Abu Muhammad) ‘Abd al-Rahman b, 

Hariin b. Sa‘Id b. al-Haytham, Eilat 
540 

(Abu Sa‘Id) ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Ibrahim b. 
‘Amr b. Maymun al-Qurashl, cadi, 
Ramla 454 

(Abu’l-Qasim) ‘Abd al-Rahman b, Ishaq 
al-Zajjajl al-Nihawandl, grammarian, 
Tiberias 491, 502 

‘Abd al-Rahman b, Mu'awiya, the Spanish 
caliph 99 

(Abu ‘All) ‘Abd al-Rahman b. al-Qasim 
al-‘UtaqI 229, 402 

‘Abd al-Rahman b. Qays al-Qaynl 88 
‘Abd al-Rahman b. ‘Umar al-Awza‘I 114 
(Abu Zur‘a) ‘Abd al-Rahman b. ‘Umar b. 
‘Abdallah b. Safwan al-Nasrl (or: 
al-Nadri) 434, 460 

‘Abd al-Saiam b. ‘Abdallah, cadi 406 
(Abu Muhammad) ‘Abd al-Samad b. ‘All 
b. ‘Abdallah, governor 390 
(Abu Muhammad) ‘Abd al-§amad b. 
Muhammad b. Abl ‘Imran al- 
Hamadanl, Jerusalem 504 
‘Abd Shams (Hashim’s brother) 18 
‘Abd al-Wahhab b. ‘Abdallah, cadi 145 
‘(Abu’l-Faraj) ‘Abd al-Wahhab b. Husayn 
b. Burhan al-Ghazzal, Tyre 655 
‘Abd al-Wahhab b. Ibrahim, al-Mansur’s 
nephew 388 

‘Abd al-Wahhab b. Shaddad b. Aws 158 
(Shaykh al-lslam Abu’l-Faraj) ‘Abd al- 
Wahid b. Ahmad b. Muhammad 
al-ShlrazI al-Ansari, Jerusalem 625 
‘Abd al-Wahid b. Ishaq, Tiberias 493 
Abiathar ha-Kohen, Gaon, the son of Elijah 
ha-Kohen Gaon 301, 302, 306, 315, 

325, 343, 353, 380, 383, 604, 609, 61 1, 
761, 765, 774, 777, 779, 783, 810, 811, 
815, 853, 859, 868, 884, 898, 899-901, 
904-916, 930, 937 
Abil al-Zayt 41, 44 
(Abu Ishaq) Abraham, Fustat, one of 
Saadia Gaon’s pupils 786 
(Abu Ishaq) Abraham al-AndalusI 881 
Abraham the gizbar, Aleppo, see: Joseph b. 
Abraham 

Abraham al-Hazzam al-Rushtabl, see: 

Khiba’ daughter of Abraham 
Abraham Maimuni 245 
Abraham b. ‘Amram 298, 374 
Abraham he-f/aver b. ‘Amram 375, 383, 

384, 816,' 821 

Abraham b. ‘Ata’, Nagid of the Maghrib 
835 


913 




INDEX 


Abraham b. David al-Kafrmandl, Ramla 
329, 823 

Abraham b. David b. Labrat 750 
Abraham b. David b. Sughmar (see also: 
mesds ha-yeshiva) 331, 383, 384, 750, 
790, 792, 805, 845, 871, 876, 881, 885, 
886, 891, 933 

Abraham b. Eleazar, Fustat 307 
Abraham the physician b, ‘Eli, Qayrawan 
871 

Abraham b. Fadanj 827, 931 
Abraham b. Furat, masorete 288 
Abraham b. HabashI, Tyre 348 
Abraham ha-Kohen b, Haggai, Fustat 
(brother of Isaac, see also: Haggai 
ha-Kohen b, Joseph) 311, 342, 353, 
821, 857, 862 

Abraham b. Halfon b. Nahum, Ascalon 
315, 906,’907 

Abraham b. al-Harunl al-Andalusi, 
Jerusalem 827 

Abraham b. Isaac al-Andalusi, (= Ibn 

Sughmar, see also: Abraham b. David 
b. Sughmar; Isaac b. David b. 
Sughmar) 350, 355, 356, 376, 381, 

385, 596, 820 

Abraham b. Isaac ha-talmid 306, 346, 376, 
378, 380, 382, 609, 891, 898, 904, 908, 
909 

Abraham ha-Kohen b. Isaac b. Furat, (see 
also: Isaac ha-Kohen b. Abraham, 

Isaac ha-Kohen b, Furat) 247, 264, 

274, 283, 315, 360, 600, 601, 751, 77 9, 
781, 782, 791, 801, 802, 805, 809, 810, 
812, 813, 814, 851, 858, 862, 865, 866, 
875, 887, 888, 890, 891, 893, 894, 896, 
898, 927 

Abraham b. Isaac al-Tahirtl 372 
Abraham b. Jacob, a Karaite 827 
Abraham b. Judah The Spaniard, from 
Jl’an 829 

Abraham (Ibrahim) b. Khalaf, Gaza- 
Ascalon 

Abraham b. Mansur, Raflah (brother of 
Musa and Sahlan) 274 
Abraham b. Meir al-Andalusi (a man of 
Allsana, who is b. Qalus) 311, 365, 

753 

Abraham b. Mevasser, Tinnls 311 
Abraham b. Mevasser, parnas in Fustat (see 
also: Jacob b. Mevasser) 793, 805, 813 
Abraham b. Mevasser (father of Solomon 
ha-gizbar) 861, 883 

(Abu Ishaq) Abraham (Barhun) b, Moses 
al-Tahirtl, cousin and partner of 
Nehorai b. Nissim 315, 346, 355, 358, 
360, 363, 374, 381 


Abraham b. Nahum Tulaytull 817 
Abraham b, Nathan av b. Abraham 609, 
757, 879, 884, 899, 901, 909, 911-912, 
915 

Abraham b. QurdusI, see: Turayk 
daughter of Abraham 
Abraham b. Rlqat, masorete 288 
Abraham b. Saadia the haver, Hebron, 
Bilbays 315 

Abraham b. Sahlan ibn Sunbat 318, 564, 
579, 762, 763, 764, 7 66, 767, 768, 769, 
770, 781, 783, 797, 806, 864, 865, 927 
Abraham b. Salman, Tiberias 285 
Abraham ‘the fourth’ b. Samuel, ‘the third’ 
(see also: Samuel ‘the third’ b. 
Hosha‘na - his father; ‘Eli ha-mumhe b. 
Abraham — his son; Joshua he-haver b. 
‘Eli - his grandson) 283, 353, 753, 

857, 874, 877, 884 

Abraham b. Saul, father of Nathan 870, 

871 

Abraham b. Sedaqa, Ramla 283 
Abraham b. Sedaqa al-‘Attar, Ascalon 307 
Abraham b. Shelah 876 
Abraham he-haver b, Shemaiah he-haver, 
great-grandson of Shemaiah Gaon 
305, 383, 855, 908 
Abraham b. Solomon 818 
Abraham b. Solomon b. Judah 252, 258, 
274, 301, 339, 341, 590, 596, 748, 749, 
754, 757, 758, 760, 761,762, 772, 774, 
775, 777, 780, 784, 793, 796, 804, 808, 
812, 818, 819, 828, 833, 838, 845, 858, 
860, 861, 862, 863, 864, 865, 866, 867, 
868-869, 874, 877, 882, 884, 897, 927, 
937 

(Abu Sa‘d) Abraham b. Yashar (Sahl) 
al-Tustarl 255, 301, 364, 598, 780, 

851, 939, 940 

Abraham b. Al-Zayyat, Fustat 901 
Absalom’s Monument 668 
Abu’l-’Abbas, see: Ibn al-Muwaffaq; 

Muhammad b. al-Hasan; Muhammad 
b. Ishaq; ‘Ubaydallah b, Muhammad 
Abu ‘Abdallah, see: Ahmad b. Yahya; 
Damra b. Rabf a; al-Husayn b. Nasir 
al-dawla; Muhammad b. ‘Abd al- 
‘Azlz; Muhammad b. Abu Bakr; 
Muhammad b. ‘Aziz; Muhammad b. 
Ibrahim; Muhammad b. Idris; 
Muhammad b. Muhammad; 
Muhammad b. Nasr; Mu'awiya b. 
Yashar 

Abu ‘Abdallah al-Ayll (Muhammad b, 
‘Aziz?) 18, 445 

Abu ‘Abdallah, the Fatimids’ emissary 464 


914 



INDEX 


Abu ‘Abdallah al-$aymari, cadi 927 
Abu ‘Abdallah al-Tawwazi 497 
Abu ‘Abd al-Mu’min, see: Ahmad b. 
Shayban 

Abu ‘Abd al-Rahman, see: ‘Abdallah b. 

al-Mubarak; Mu’ammal b. Ihab 
Abu Ahmad, see: ‘Abdallah b. Bakr 
Abu’l-* Ala, see: Joseph b. Da'ud b. Sha'ya; 

Mevorakh (Mubarak) b. Isaac 
Abu’l-A‘la, see: ‘Amram b. Levi al-Buhuri 
Abu’l ‘Ala al-Ma‘arri, the poet 584 
Abu’l-A‘la b. Mevorakh (Abu’l-Haffaz), 
ha-Kohen, the merchants’ 
representative in Tyre (see also: 
Shemaria ha-Kohen b. Mevorakh 
ha-Kohen and Abu’l-Khayr b. 
Mevorakh ha-Kohen, his brothers) 

609 

Abu ‘All, see: ‘Abd al-Rahman b. al- 
Qasim; Jamil b. Yusuf; al-Hasan b. 
‘Abd al-$amad; al-Hasan b. 
Muhammad; Husayn b. Muslim; 
Masbah b. Hilqam; Yefet b. ‘All; 

Yefet b. David b. Shekhania 
Abu ‘All al-tvakil, known as Ibn al-$ufi, 
Jerusalem (see also: Abu ‘All Husayn 
b. Yunus) 359 
Abu ‘All b. Ayyub 283 
Abu ‘All b. Azhar 305, 804 
Abu ‘Ali b. Fadlan, Baghdad 888 
Abu ‘All b. Haydara, see: al-Hasan b. 

Hajjaj 

Abu ‘Ali (Khalid?) b. Yazid 477 
Abu’l ‘Amirayn al-Sha’rani al-Maghribi 
760 

Abu ‘Amr, see: ‘Abd al-Jabbar b. ‘Umar; 
Dhakwan 

Abu’l-A§bagh, see: Muhammad b. Sima'a 
Abu’l- 1 Assaf al-Kabbashi, the chief cadi in 
Ramla 637 

Abu‘l-A‘war (who is ‘Amr b. Sufyan 
al-Sulami), a governor 69, 88, 130, 

132 

Abu Ayyub al-Ansari (who is Khalid b. 

Zayd b. Kulayb) 69, 225 
Abu’l-Baha’ b. Ghana’im, (brother of Abu 
Sa‘d) 949 

Abu Bakr, see: Aban b. Salih; Ahmad b. 
‘Amr; Ahmad b. §alih; al-IJarith; 
Muhammad b. ‘Abbas; Muhammad 
b. ‘Abdallah; Muhammad b. Ahmad; 
Muhammad b. ‘Ali; Muhammad b. 
al-Walld 

Abu Bakr, caliph 10, 33, 41, 42, 44, 45, 46, 
47, 53, 56, 61, 88, 183, 201 
Abu Bakr al-Banna’ 362, 612 


Abu Bakr b. Muhammad b. Zayd b. 
‘Abdallah b. ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab 
174 

Abu Bakr ibn al-Murajja, Ramla 510 
(The divorcee of) Abu’l Baqa’ Samuel 905 
Abu'l-Barakat, see: Berakha b. Rawh 
Abu’l-Barakat 905 

Abu’l-Barakat b. al-Hulaybl, see: Khalaf b. 
Joseph al-Sovi 

Abii’l-Bishr, see: ‘Abdallah ibn Fayruz; 

Solomon b. Semah 
Abu Dahr, see: Yazid b. Abi Sumayd 
Abu Daniel al-Fasi 745 
Abu’l-Darda 225 

Abu Da’ud ‘Abdallah b. Sulayman al- 
Sijistani, the writer 430 
Abu Dawra 807 

Abu’l-Fadl, see: ‘Ata’; ‘Ayyash b. Sedaqa; 
Ja‘far b. Fadl; Meshullam; Mevorakh 
the Nagid b. Saadia; Mevorakh b. 

‘Eli; Muhammad b. Tahir; al-Rabi’ b. 
Yunus; Sahl b. Joshua; Salih b. Bishr; 
Sahl b. Salama 

Abu’l Faraj, see: ‘Abd al-Wahid b. Ahmad; 
‘Abd al-Wahhab b. Husayn; Hayyim 
he-haver b. Solomon; Hiba, Fustat; 
Muhammad b. Sa‘id; Semah b, 

Eleazar; Shemaiah he-haver b. Yeshu’a; 
Ya’qub; Yeshu’a b. Judah (2); Yeshu'a 
b. Samuel 

Abu’l-Faraj, Fustat 828 
Abu’l-Faraj Salim, Fustat 786 
Abu’l-Faraj b. 'Eli, a cantor from Mosul 
761, 804 

Abu’l-Fath, see: Fadl b. Ja’far; Muhammad 
b. Ibrahim; Muzahim; Nasr b. 

Ibrahim; Sultan b. Ibrahim 
Abu’l-Fawaris, see: Ahmad b. ‘All; al-Dayf 
Abu'l-Ful 585 

Abu Futrus, Antipatris, Rosh ha-‘ayin 101 
Abu’l-Futuh, see: Fadl b. $alih; al-Hasan b, 
Ja‘far 

Abu Ghanim, see: Nasr b. Sa‘Id 
Abu Hamid, see: al-Ghazali; Hamdan b. 
Gharim 

Abu Hanifa, the Muslim jurist (al-Nu‘man 
b'. Thabit) 519, 917, 927 
Abu Harb, see: Tamim 
Abu Hari‘, governor of Ascalon 305, 589 
Abu’l-Harr, see: Husayn b. Malik 
Abu’l-Hasan, see: ‘All b. Fadlan; ‘All b. 
Muhammad; ‘All b. Sulayman; 

‘Allun; Da’ud b. AI-Faraj; ‘Eli b. 
‘Amram; Idris b. Hamza, Labrat b. 
Moses; Raja’ of Ascalon 


915 



INDEX 


Abu’l-Hasan Adam b. Abi Iyas, Ascalon 
438, 439, 527 

Abu Hashim, see: ‘Abdallah b. 

Muhammad; Isma‘11 b, ‘Abd al-Wahid 
Abu Hatim al-Harawl al-Hanafi, cadi of 
Jerusalem 

Abu’l-Hawa’, see: Naslm b. ‘Abdallah 
Abu’l-Hay b. Hakim, Sicily 776 
Abu’l-Hija b. Munajja, a Qarmati chief 
550 

Abu Hurayra 417 

Abu Hurayz, elder of the city (Ascalon) 

305 

Abu’l-Husayn, see: Ahmad ibn Mahmud; 
‘Eli b. Sedaqa; ‘Isa b. ‘Ubaydallah; 
Muhammad b. Ahmad 
Abu Ibrahim, see: ‘Ayyash b. Sedaqa; 
Rawh b. Yazid 

Abu ‘Imran, see: Musa al-Hazan al-‘ajaml; 
Musa b, Abi’l Hayy; Musa b. 

Abraham al-Tahirti; Musa b. Sahl 
Abu ‘Imran al-Qaratisi, see: Musa b. 
‘Abdallah b. Musa 

Abu Isa al-Isfahani 76, 97, 740, 918, 930 
Abu Ishaq, see: Abraham b. David b. 
Sughmar; Abraham b. Haggai; 
Abraham b. Isaac al-AndalusI; 
Abraham (Barhun) b. Musa al-Tahirti; 
Abraham b. Sahlan; Abraham b. 
Solomon b. Judah; Ka‘b al-Ahbar; 
Ibrahim b. Yahya 

Abu Ishaq brother of Bakhtiyar 553 
Abu Ja‘far, see: Muhammad b. Ahmad; 

Muslim b. ‘Ubaydallah 
Abu’l-Jarud, a governor 411, 941 
Abu’l-Jaysh, see: Khumarawayh 
Abu Ju'ayd 61, 69 
Abu Kamil, see: Nasr b. Salih 
Abu’l-Karam al-Mu’ayyad, see: Haydara 
Abu Kathlr, see: Yahya b. Zakariyya' 

Abu Khalid,see: ‘Uqayl b. Khalid; Yazid 
b, Khalid 

Abu Kharbaq, see: Salama b. Rawh 
Abu’l-Khayr, see: Mevorakh b. Nathan; 
Salih b. Mu'ammar 

Abu’l-Khayr al-ger, see: b. al-Khayr al-ger 
Abu’l-Khayr b. Mevorakh ha-Kohen 609 
Abu’l-Ma‘ali, see: Mujalli b. Jami‘ 
Abu’l-Ma'ali, cadi of Ramla (see also: 

al-Musharraf b. al-Murajja b. Ibrahim 
al-MaqdisI 779, 866 
Abu’l-Ma‘ashir, see: Sa‘d al-A‘sar 
Abu Mahmud, see: Ibrahim b. Ja'far 
Abu’l-Makarim, the husband of Sitt 
al-Sada, Abiathar ha-Kohen’s 
daughter 916 


Abu’l-Mand, a Fatimi official 882 
Abu Mansur, see: Aaron b. Sahl; 

Anushtakin b. ‘Abdallah 
Abu Mansur b. Shu‘ayb, see: David b. 

Solomon 
Abu Ma‘shar 72 

Abu Mas'ud, see: Ayyub b. Suwayd 
Abu’l-Miqdam, see: Raja’ ibn Hayawa 
Abu Miqdam, see: Raja’ b. Mihran 
Abii’l-Mughra 422 

Abu Muhammad, see: ‘Abd al-Rahman b. 
Harun; ‘Abd al-Samad b. ‘Ali; ‘Abd 
al-Samad b, Muhammad; ‘Abdallah 
ibn ‘Ali; ‘Abdallah ibn ‘Ubaydallah; 
al-Ash‘ath b. Qays; Bakr b. Sahl; 
al-Hasan b. ‘Ali; al-Hasan b. Salih; 
Hiyaj b. ‘Ubayd; Isma‘11 b. Raja’ 
Khalaf b. Muhammad; Muhammad b. 
al-Rabi‘; Salih b. Jubayr 
Abu'l-Muna 905 
Abu’l-Muna al-'arel, Fustat 600 
Abu’l-Munajja, see: ‘Abdallah b. ‘All 
Abu’l-Munajja, the physician, a haver 890 
Abu’l-Munajjim, see: Muhammad b. 
MakkI 

Abu Musa, see: Harun b. Zayd 
Abu Musa al-Ash‘ari 270 
Abu Muslim, see: ‘Abdallah b. Thawb 
Abu Muslim the Galilean 81 
Abu Muslim al-Khurasani, the leader of 
the rebellion against the Umayyads 
101 

Abu’l-Najm, see: Hillel 
Abu Nasr: see: Aaron b. Ephraim he-haver; 
Ghalib ha-Kohen b. Moses; Hesed b. 
Sahl al-Tustari; Husayn b. Tughj; 
Isma'il b. ‘Abdallah; Mevorakh b. 
Husayn al-Wakil; Muhammad b. 
Muhammad; Raja’ ibn Hayawa; 
Solomon b. Saadia; Ezekiel ha-kohen 
b. Eli; Ziyad b. Abu Sawda; Ziyadat 
Allah b. ‘Abdallah 
Abu Nasr b, ‘Abdun 253 
Abu Nasr b. al-Faraj 783 
Abu Nasr b. Shu'ayb 912 
Abu Nasr b. Tobiah 743 
Abu’l-Nida’, a rebel 410 
Abu’l-Qalus, see: Khushkhash 
Abu’l-Qasam, see: ‘All b. ‘Abd al-‘Aziz; 
‘Isa b. ‘All 

Abu’l-Qasim, see: ‘Abd al-Jabbar b. 

Ahmad; ‘Abdallah b. ‘Awf; ‘Abdallah 
b. Muhammad); ‘Abd al-Rahman b. 
Ishaq; ‘Ali b. Ahmad; al-Husayn b. 
‘All; Anujur; Makki b. ‘Abd al-Salam; 
Muhammad b. al-Hasan; Thabit b. 
Ahmad 


916 



INDEX 


Abu’l-Qasim b. Abi’l Hasan al-Husaynl 
594 

Abu Qirdafa, see: Wathila b. al-Asqa‘ 

Abu Rakwa, an Egyptian rebel 561, 575 
Abu Rashid 815 

Abu Rashid, governor of Nessana 135 
Abu’l-Rida, see: Solomon b. Mevorakh 
Abu’l-Rida ha-Kohen 365 
Abu’l-Rida, a nasi 892 
Abu Ruqiyya, see: Tamlm al-Darl 
Abu’l-$abah, see: ‘Abd al-Jabbar b, ‘Umar 
Abu Sa‘d, see: Halfon b. Solomon; Isaac b. 

Aaron; Josiah b. Azariah 
Abu Sa‘d, a Fatimid official, Ramla 941 
Abu Sa‘d al-Razzaq 912 
Abu Sa‘d b. Ghana’im, Ascalon, the 
brother of Abu’l-Baha’ 949 
Abu Sa‘d b. Pinhas, Damascus 262 
Abu Sa‘d, the son of the Tustarl’s wife 
946, 947 

Abu’l-Sahba, see: Zafar b. al-Yaman 
Abu Sahl, see: ‘Isa b. Yahya; Ezra; Joseph 
b. Sahl al-Baradanl; Manasseh b. 
Abraham; Ma$llah b. Eliah 
Abu Sa‘id, see; ‘Abd al-Rahman b. 

Ibrahim; David b. Boaz; Hasan b. 
Da’ud b. Babshad; Hashim b. 
Marthad; Isma‘11 b. Hamdawayh; 
Khalfa al-Maghribl; Joseph b. Moses 
al-Tahirtl; Levi b. Yefet; Makhluf b. 
Azariah 

Abu Sa‘Id al-Da’udl 808 
Abu Sa‘Id al-Janabl 463 
Abu Sa'Id, Qayrawan 342, 384 
Abu Salam, see: Mamtur al-Dimashqi 
Abu Salima b. ‘Abd al-Rahman b. ‘Awn 
229 

(The nephew of) Abu’l-Sayyar, Damascus 
599 

Abu Shanbal, see: Ibrahim b. Shamir 
Abu Shu‘ayb, see: Salih b, Yusuf 
Abu Shuja* 889 

Abu Shuja‘ Fatik (‘the great’, ‘the mad’), 
aide of the Ikhshid 474 
Abu Sinan, see: Humayd b. ‘Uqba; ‘Isa b. 
Sinan 

Abu Sir, see: Btislr 

Abu Sufyan, see: Ibrahim b_ Mu'awiya; 

Wakl‘ b. al-Jarrah 
Abu Sufyan b. Harb 18, 410 
Abu Sulayman, see: Ayyub b. Ishaq; 

David b. Abraham; David b, Bapshad 
Abu SurrI, see: ‘All b. Zita; Sahl ha-Kohen 
b. Masllah 

Abu’l-SurrI Barhun, the brother-in-law of 
Daniel b. Azariah 376, 886, 896, 903 


Abii’l-Surur, see: Farah b. Isaac; Joshua b. 
Nathan al-AndalusI; Perahia b. 
Bunaym; Perahia b. Mu’ammal 
Abu Taghlib the Hamdanid, who is 
Fadlallah b. al-Hasan 548, 553, 557, 
558, 561, 565 

Abu Tahir, see: Ibrahim b. Muhammad 
Abu Talib al-Gharabill, the kharaj collector 
in Ramla 638 

Abu Tamlm, see: Salman b. Ja‘far 
Abu’l-Tayyib, see: Ahmad b, Rlhan; 

‘Allun b. Sahl; Hanania ha-Levi; 
Khalaf b. ‘Eli; Lahha Muhammad b. 
Hamza; Tahir b. ‘All 
Abu’l-Tayyib al-TinnlsI 940 
Abu ‘Ubayd al-hajib 150 
Abu ‘Ubayda b, al-Jarrah (‘Amir b. 

‘Abdallah) 33, 41, 44, 47, 53, 54, 57, 
63, 69, 74, 140, 238, 239, 319 
Abu ‘Ubaydallah, see: Muhammad ibn 
Karram 

Abu Ubayy, see: ‘Abdallah b. ‘Amr 
Abu ‘Umayr, see: ‘Isa b. Muhammad 
Abu’l-‘Umaytar, see: ‘All b. ‘Abdallah 
Abu’l-‘Umaytar, masorete 288 
Abu Umayya, see: ‘Abd al-Rahman 
al-Sindl 

Abu Uthman, see: Aban; ‘Anbasa b. 

Khalid 

Abu ‘Uthman b. Waraqa 630 
Abu’l-Wafa’, see: Shemaria ha-Kohen b. 
Mevorakh 

AbCiT Walld, see: Rudayh b. ‘Atiyya; 

‘Ubada b. al-Samit; Yunus b, Da’ud 
Abu Yahya, see: ‘Abd al-Rahlm b. 

Muhammad; Ibn Abl Sarh; Nehorai b. 
Nissim 

Abu Ya‘la, see: Muhammad b, Zuhayr; 
Shaddad b. Aws 

Abu’l-Yaman, see: Bashir b. ‘Aqraba 
Abu Ya'qub, see: Ishaq b. Isma‘11; Isaac b. 

‘Eli; Isaac ha-Kohen b. Haggai 
Abu Yazld, see: Yunus b. Yazld 
Abu’l-Yumn Quzman ibn Mina, a 

Christian appointed by the Fatimid 
caliph 551 

Abu Yusuf, see: ‘Abdallah b. Salam; Jacob 
b. Isma‘11 

Abu Yusuf, ra’s al-kuli, Fustat 742 
Abu’l-Zahir, see: Mahmud b. Muhammad 
Abu Zakariyya’, see: Yahya b. ‘Isa 
Abu Zayyan, see: Tayyib b. Zayyan 
Abu Zikri, see: Judah b. Isma‘11; Judah b. 
Moses; Judah b. Saadia; Judah b. 
al-'Ujfiira 

Abu Zur‘a, see: ‘Abd al-Rahman b. 


917 



INDEX 


Abu Zur‘a— (coni. ) 

‘Umar; Muhammad b. ‘Uthman, 
Rawh b. Zinba‘; Yahya b. Abu ‘Amr 
al-Saybanl 

Abu Zur‘a al-Razi 426 
abwab, see: bab 

Acre 2, 52, 57, 76, 117, 121, 122, 276, 284, 
298, 301, 303, 308, 323, 328, 329, 337, 
348, 362, 367, 459, 465, 492, 531-535, 
550, 552, 564, 585, 594, 595, 600, 603, 
607, 609, 610, 611, 612, 653, 654, 676, 
799, 851, 898, 899, 909, 912, 914. 943, 
944, 948 

Adalbert, bishop of Bremen 725 
Adalpert, bishop of the Slavs 722 
Adelinda, countess of Swabia 722 
Adhemar de Chabannes 724 
Adhruh 36, 37, 39, 88, 100, 122, 674 
‘Adi (‘Adaya) b. Manasseh b. al-Qazzaz 
560, 775, 783 

Adso, the abbot of the Benedictine 
monastery in Lotharingia 722 
‘Adud al-dawla, see: Anushtakln b. 
‘Abdallah 

‘Adud al-dawla, Buyid governor 553, 557, 
558, 809 

(Abu’l-Qasim Shahinshah) al-Afdal b. 

Badr al-Jamall, wazlr304, 3 i 5, 607, 
629, 913, 943, 946, 947 
Afeq (Aflq) 57, 92, 674 
Agamus 681 

Agapius, patriarch of Jerusalem 683, 698 
Agathon, patriarch of Jerusalem 696, 697 
R. Ahai of Shabha 821 
ahdatii 248, 311, 355, 596, 820 
Ahima‘as 734, 828 
Ahiyahu ha-Kohen (who is Abu’l 
‘Umaytar) 288 

Ahmad, the governor’s aide in Ramla 457 
(Shihab al-Dtn) Ahmad al-‘Aqrabam 401 
Ahmad b. ‘Abdallah al-Lihyam 535 
Ahmad b. AbJ Karasa, Jerusalem 508 
(Abu’l-Fawaris) Ahmad b. ‘All, the 
Ikhshldid 486, 543, 544 
Ahmad b. ‘All b. Shu'ayb al-Nasa’i 465, 
490 

Ahmad b. ‘Amr b. ‘Abd al-Khaliq al- 
‘Atakl al-Bazzar, Ramla 513 
(Abu Bakr) Ahmad b. ‘Amr b. Jabir, 
al-Tahhan, Ramla 524 
Ahmad b. ‘Ata’ b, Ahmad b. Muhammad 
b. ‘Ata’ al-Rudhbadi, Tyre 654 
Ahmad ibn Hanbal 433, 454 
Ahmad b. al-Husayn al-Shamma‘, Ascalon 
630 

Ahmad b. ‘Isa ibn Shaykh 422 
Ahmad b. Isma‘11 al-Saffar, Ramla 435 


Ahmad b. Kayghalagh, a governor 467, 
468, 469, 470 

(Abu’l-Husayn) Ahmad ibn Mahmud 
al-Shama‘1506 

Ahmad b. Mas‘ud al-Khayyat 423 
Ahmad al-Mudabbir 456 
Ahmad b. Muhammad al-Kattani, Ramla 
640 

Ahmad b. Musawwir, the governor of 
Damascus 550 

(Abu’l-Tayyib) Ahmad b. Rlhan b. 

‘Abdallah, Ramla 512 
(Abu Bakr) Ahmad b. Salih b. ‘Umar b. 

Ishaq al-Baghdadi, Ramla 525 
(Abu ‘Abd al-Mu’min) Ahmad b. 

Shayban, Ramla 510 

Ahmad ibn Tulun 301, 362, 422, 455-460, 
715 

(Abu ‘Abdallah) Ahmad b. Yahya ibn 
al-Jalla’, Ramla 515 

Ahmad b. Ya’qub, leader of the Isma'ills 
569 

Ahmad b. Zakariyya’ b. Yahya 431 
(The fortress of) al-Ahsa in Bahrayn 550 
Ahwaz, in Iraq 463 
‘A’isha daughter of Joseph b. Sudayq, 
Raflah 274 

'ajam 282, 317, 320, 354, 376, 385 
‘Ajlan 88, 230 
‘Ajlun 55 

Akhu Muslim, see: ‘Abdallah b. 

‘Ubaydallah 
Akhzlv, see: Zib 
al-‘AkkawI 328 
Akwakh, near Baniyas 644 
Albi, in southern France 717 
Alcuin 681 

Aldegarius, bishop of Albi 717 
Aleppo (also: Halab; Sova) 112, 255, 289, 
296, 298, 300, 301, 358, 359, 411, 418, 
477, 478, 479, 481, 482, 557, 559, 560, 
563, 566, 567, 586, 588, 590, 592, 594, 
597, 598, 599, 600, 606, 610, 653, 695, 
738, 742, 754, 763, 774, 775, 7 80, 786, 
790, 794, 797, 798, 799, 822, 854, 868, 
887, 911, 923, 948, 950 
Alexandria (also: No’ Amon) 8, 9, 65, 72, 
81, 117, 160, 178, 249, 274, 301, 338, 
353, 355, 360, 372, 376, 377, 381, 382, 
383, 397, 469, 561, 569, 570, 587, 629, 
661, 686, 690, 691, 695, 698, 699, 718, 
721, 746, 7 51, 755, 761, 807, 809, 810. 
821, 829, 845, 860, 868, 896, 897, 901, 
903, 905, 908, 912, 943, 946, 947 
Alexius Comnenus, emperor 333, 699 
‘All ha-Kohen Fasi, see: Joseph Kohen b. 
‘All 


918 



INDEX 


(Abu’l-Qasam) ‘All b. ‘Abd al-‘Aziz 
al-Ukhuwwa 881, 882 
‘All b. ‘Abdallah, leader of the Qarmatis 
467 

‘All b. ‘Abdallah b. ‘Abbas 
(Abu’l-‘Umaytar) ‘All b. ‘Abdallah b. 
Khalid b. Yazld b. Mu'awiya ‘the 
Sufyani’, leader of rebels 288, 410 
‘All ibn Abi Talib (see also: ‘Alids 88, 90, 
91, 95, 118, 131, 159, 188, 201, 230, 
236, 266, 360, 389, 410, 460, 462, 464, 
465, 467, 577, 636 

(Abu’l-Husayn) ‘All b. Abraham b. Saadia, 
Hebron 315 

(Thiqat al-a’imma, Sadld al-dawla) ‘All b. 
Ahmad, amir, Jerusalem (who might 
be al-Jarjara’i, the wazir) 594, 803 
(Safi amir al-mu’minin Abu’l-Qasim) ‘Ali 
b. Ahmad al-Jarjara’i, wazir 592, 594, 
882 ' 

‘Ali b. ‘Amr, secretary of Abu Taghlib the 
Hamdanid 557 
‘Ali b, Ayman, Eilat 636 
(Abu’l-Hasan) ‘Ali b. Fadlan al-Jurjanl, 
Ascalon 646 

(Abu’l-Hasan, Sayf al-dawla) ‘All b, 

Hamdan 367, 477, 478, 481, 482, 577 
‘Ali ibn ‘Isa, Wazir 357 
‘All b. Ishaq b. Yahya b. Mu‘adh al- 
Darikani, Eilat 443 

(Qutb al-dawla) ‘Ali b. Ja‘far b. Fallalj, 
Fatimid commander 563, 577, 578 
‘Ali (‘Ula, $a‘id) ha-Levi the pamas b. 

Joseph (Munajja), 897, 908, 916, 949 
‘All b. Judah, ha-nazir 286 
‘Ali b. Khalaf (Aaron) 488 
‘Ali b. al-Mufarrij b, Daghfal the Jarrahid 
563, 566, 577 

‘Ali b. Muhammad b. al-Furat, Abbasid 
wazir 475 

(Abu’l-Hasan) ‘Ali b. Muhammad b. Sahl 
al-Dinawari, one of the leaders of the 
Sufis 836 

(Abu’l-Hasan) ‘Ali b. Muhammad b. 

Tughj, Ikhshidid 487, 836 
‘Ali b. Naja, Fatimid commander 583 
‘Ali b. Salim, Fustat 786 
‘All b. Sawwar, nicknamed Ibn al- 
Hammar, a Christian official 698 
(Abu’l-Hasan) ‘Ali b. Sulayman, Karaite 
writer (see also in the bibliographical , 
index) 940 

‘Ali b. Sulayman, the Abbasid 418 
‘Ali ha-Kohen b. Yahya, see: ‘Eli ha- 
Kohen b. Hayyim 

(Abu’l-Surri) ‘Ali b. Zita (Zuta?) one of 


the Karaite leaders in Jerusalem (see 
also: Joshua ha-Kohen b. ‘All) 925 
‘Alids 95, 420, 464, 481, 487, 547, 575, 
577, 637 

‘aliya (immigration in Palestine) 819-827, 
920, 921, 922, 925, 933, 936, 937 
‘Allaqa, a mariner, leader of an uprising in 
Tyre 565, 566 
‘Allun, see: ‘Ali b. ‘Amram 
(Abu’l-Hasan) ‘Allun 752, 876 
‘Allun b. Moses, see: Mevorakh b. ‘Allun 
(Abu’l-Tayyib) ‘Allun b. Sahl (see also: 

Sahl b. Aaron) 817, 856 
Alisana (Lucena) in Spain 311 
‘Alma, in the Galilee 325 
almonds 337, 350, 871 
Alp Arslan, leader of the Saljuqs 603, 606 
Alptakin, the Turkish commander 545, 
550, 551, 552, 553, 557, 558, 698 
‘Alqama b. Hakim, governor 69 130 
‘Alqama b. al-Mujazziz, governor 130 
Altar of Abraham, Jerusalem 665 
aluf (= rosh kalla) 728, 742, 772, 796, 807, 
809, 849 
‘amala 356, 365 
Amalfi 584, 713, 718 
Amajur (or Anajur), a governor 422, 456, 
457 

aman ( amatm) 39, 55, 68, 72, 240, 468, 552, 
553, 559, 562, 605, 607, 943, 947 
Amid 794 

‘Amid al-dawla, see: al-Hasan b. Salih 
al-Amin, caliph 394, 410, 709, 941 
al-Amir, caliph 367 
amir al-juyush (see also: Anushtakin b. 
‘Abdallah; Badr al-Jamali) 584, 593, 
607, 783, 882 

al-amir al-muzajfar, see: Anushtakin b. 
‘Abdallah 

‘Amir b. ‘Abdallah, see: Abu ‘Ubayda 
‘Amir b. ‘Umara b. Khuraym al-Na‘im 
Abu’l-Haydham al-Murri 393 
‘Amman (also:) Rabbat Bene ‘Ammon 22, 
34, 121, 318, 336, 352, 367, 465, 473, 
663, 674, 770, 848 

al-‘Ammani, see: Yahya al-‘Ammani 
al-‘Ammani, amir 782 
(Abu’l-Hasan) ‘Ammar the physician, 
Ramla 874, 879 
Amorion, in Asia Minor 706 
al-‘AmqawI, a man of‘Amuqa 329 
‘Amr ibn al-‘As 15, 26, 33, 44, 49, 52, 54, 
57, 64, 66, 73, 88, 179, 230 
‘Amr b, Ka‘b (see also: Ka‘b b. ‘Umayr) 

28 

‘Amr b. Kinana 222 


9X9 



INDEX 


‘Amt b. Sufyan al-Sulaml, see: Abu’l- 
A‘war 

‘Amram ha-melammed, Jerusalem 823 
‘Amram ha-Kohen the seventh b. Aaron, 
Abiathar Gaon’s son-in-law (see also: 
Aaron ha-Kohen b. 'Amram, his 
father) 611, 899, 910, 913, 914, 916 
‘Amram b. Fudayl, RafTah (brother of 
Sahl) 274 

(Abu’l-A'la) ‘Amram b. Levi al-Buhuri 
376, 812 

‘Amram b. Nathan of Gaza b. ‘Amram 
(brother of Mevorakh) 309, 835 
‘Amram Gaon b. Sheshna 917 
‘Amram b. Yefet, Fustat 875, 879 
‘Amrun b. Eliah, a merchant from Sicily 
803 

‘Amta, in Transjordan 319 

al-‘Amtam, see: Mevasser b. Shela 

‘Amuqa, in the Galilee 329 

‘Anan b. Daniel 918, 927 

‘Anan b. David 76, 728, 7 89, 825, 849, 

852, 915, 917-920, 926, 928, 930, 931, 
948 

al-‘Anani 329 

‘Ananites 732, 918, 919, 929, 932 
Anastas of Caesarea, Jacobite bishop of 
Jerusalem 678 

Anastasius, patriarch ofjerusalem 683, 684 
Anastasius (Nastas), a Byzantine 
commander 58 
al-Anbar (Neharde'a) 443 
(Abu ‘Uthman) ‘Anbasa b. Khalid b. 

Yazid b. Abl’l-Najjad 177, 404 
al-AndalusI, see: Abraham b. Meir; Isma‘U 
b. Isaac; Joshua b. Nathan; Jacob b. 
Isma‘11; Jacob b. Samuel 
Andreas of Crete, a monk from Jerusalem 
684 

Anianus 87 
Anjou 723, 724 

al-ansar (early Muslims of Medina) 102, 
158, 223, 225 
‘ansara 700 

al-Ansari, see: ‘Abd al-Wahid b. Ahmad 
Anselinus, the man in charge of the 
Jerusalem hostel 717 
al-AntakT, see: Idris b. Abl Khawla 
anti/dr 739 

Antioch 4, 5, 9, 54, 61, 62, 76, 117, 284, 
416, 460, 482, 501, 547, 559, 563, 566, 
578, 607, 608, 661, 663, 676, 680, 686, 
690, 702, 946, 947 

Antiochus Eustratius 7, 668, 669, 670 
Antoninus, bishop of Baq‘a 663 
Antonius of Chozeba 19 
(Abu’l-Qasim) Anujur, Ikhshidid 475, 476, 
477, 486, 836 


(Abu Mansur) Anushtakln b. ‘Abdallah 
al-Dizbiri, the Fatimid commander 
(see also: amir al-juyiish) 335, 584, 585, 
588, 589, 591, 592, 593, 594, 598, 748, 
778, 783, 882, 941 
'anzarut, see: suit ‘anzarut 
Aphrodito 108 
apples 337 
Apulia 721 

al-'aqaba, mountain pass of Eilat 313 
al-‘Aqaba, near Medina 141 
al ‘Aqari see: Muhammad b. Ahmad 
‘Aqbun, Samaritan great priest 116 
‘Aqib, a village 557 
‘AqTl, see: ‘Abdallah b. ‘All 
‘Aqll b. Abl Talib 2 
‘aqiq, carnelian 354, 363 
‘Aqlr (Akron) 316, 539 
‘Aqraba, near Nabulus 401 
al_-‘AqrabanI, see: Ahmad 
‘Aqula (which is Kufa) 764 
Arabia 1, 23 

Aram Sova, see Aleppo; Sova 
Aramaic 17, 666, 676, 677, 702 
the ‘Arava 49, 122 
Arbel 323 

Arculf 103, 311, 352, 664, 665, 666, 667, 
668, 673, 674, 719 
Arethas 701 

‘arel, ‘arelim 11, 81, 278, 564, 569, 587, 

600, 671, 834, 837 
Aryans 3 

al-‘Arish 90, 122, 422, 476, 584, 585, 586, 
605, 721, 827 

al-‘ArishI, see: Solomon b. David 
Aristo, in charge of the church in 
Ratzeburg 725 
Arles, in France 777 
Armenia, Armenians 4, 59, 61, 75, 358, 
422, 550, 566, 568, 603, 607, 666, 667, 
672, 678, 680 

the Armenian monastery, Jerusalem 667 
al-Arrajani, Jerusalem 366 
arsenic 379 

Arsenius, patriarch of Alexandria 569, 570, 
699 

Arsuf 332, 410, 632, 941, 944 
Artabun, a Byzantine commander 65 
Artuq the Saljuqid 606, 607, 609, 678 
Asa b. Semah b. Josiah, nasi 852 
Asad, see: Judah b. Moses 
Asad b. ‘Abdallah 154 
Asad b. Mansur 285 
Asaf rosh ha-seder 797 
Asbadus 52 

Ascalon 70, 73, 76, 93, 113, 114, 117, 121, 


920 



INDEX 


Ascalon— (cent.) 

122, 172-174, 179, 185, 231, 258, 262, 
276, 301, 303-308 , 309, 315, 330, 331, 
337, 342, 345, 350, 352, 353, 355, 356, 
358, 361, 365, 367, 371, 380, 381, 383, 
388, 392, 400, 409, 439-442, 455, 465, 
472, 478, 483, 484, 522, 523-530, 553, 
563, 564, 571, 577, 584, 585, 588, 589, 
595, 604, 606, 607, 609, 611, 630, 
646-650, 674, 697, 708, 710, 711, 747, 
759, 775, 791, 793, 794, 857, 860, 898, 
899, 900, 905, 906-908, 909, 910, 913, 
914, 945, 947, 949 

(Abu Muhammad) al-Ash‘ath (Ma'dikarib) 
b. Qays, leader of the Kinda tribe 63, 
91 

Ashdod (Azdud) 41, 76 
Asher b. Nehemiah (1), masorete 288 
Asher b. Nehemiah (2), masorete 288 
Ashir 860 
Ashkenaz 328, 947 
Ashlimun, see: Ghaliya daughter of 
Ashlimun 

Ashma'athis (— Rabbanites) 286 
al-Ashqar, see: Salman b. Shabib 
Ashot, king of the Armenians 550 
al-Ashtar, who was Malik b. al-Harith 90 
Asia Minor 5 

‘Asim b. Muhammad b. Zayd b. ‘Abdallah 
b. ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab 174 
‘Asim b. Raja’ b. Hayawa 153 
Aslam, ‘Umar’s freedman 239 
‘Asluj b. al-Hasan 246, 549 
Astrologer (munajjim) (see also: Moses b. 

Semah) 341, 561, 671, 656 
‘Asya, see: Eilat 

(Abu’l-Fadl) ‘Ata’ al-Maqdisi, head of the 
Shaffites, Jerusalem 623 
‘Ata’ b. Abu Muslim (Abu Muslim: 
‘Abdallah, and some say Maysara), 
al-Khurasani 165, 333 
al-‘Ataki, see: Ahmad b. ‘Amr 
Athanasius I, patriarch ofjerusalem 683, 
696 

‘Atika, daughter of‘Abdallah b. Yazld b. 
Mu'awiya 841 

‘Atiyya ha-Levi b. Judah, Aleppo 822 
‘Atlit 122 

Atsiz b. Uwaq the Turcoman ( al-malik 
al-mu'azzam) 603, 605, 606, 608, 609, 
624, 625 

‘Attab b, Usayd 357 
Attalia, in Asia Minor 455 
al-‘Attar, see: Abraham b. Sedaqa 
Avars 3, 9 

Avdlmi, one of Mar Zutra’s descendants^) 
849 


Avel (Abil), an administrative area (in the 
Jordan valley) 122, 827 
avw, the ripeness of the grain 310, 311, 

312, 315, 785, 918, 928, 929 
Avon b. Sedaqa al-Maghribl al-Qabisi 258, 
265, 274, 315, 336, 337, 340, 342, 349, 
350, 355, 361, 364, 371, 372, 376-377, 
378, 384, 385, 596, 743, 821, 833, 838, 
839, 845, 848, 891, 896, 898, 940 
‘Awkal, see: Joseph b. Jacob 
‘Awn, Nestorian of Baghdad 757 
‘Awn Allah b. Moses (Musa) b. Eliezer 
561 

al-Awza‘i, cadi (see also: ‘Abd al-Rahman 
b. ‘Umar) 98, 168, 236 
Aws b. al-Samit 144 
Ayman b. Khuraym, leader of the Banu 
Asad 88 
'ayn = gold 762 

‘Ayn al-dawla, see: ‘Abdallah b. ‘All 
‘Ayn al-Fulus 113 
‘Ayn al-Jarr, which is Anjar 550 
‘Aynun, see: Bayt ‘Aynun 
(Abu Ibrahim; also: Abu’l-Fadl) ‘Ayyash b. 
Sedaqa b. Baruch al-Maghribi, partner 
of Nehorai, Alexandria 382 
Ayyub, see: Abu ‘All b. Ayyub 
Ayyub, patriarch of Antioch 690 
(Abu Sulayman) Ayyub b. Ishaq b. 

Ibrahim b. Safari (or Musafir) 433 
(Abu Mas'ud) Ayyub b. Suwayd (al- 
Shaybani al-Himyari) 403 
Ayyubids 549 

Azariah b. Abaye, of Mar Zutra’s 
descendants 849 
Azariah b. David, Ascalon 305 
Azariah ha-Kohen, head of the Sura 

yeshiva, b. Israel, father of Josiah 887, 
896, 904 

Azariah b. Solomon b. Josiah b. Zakkai, 
exilarch 773, 885 

Azariah b. Mevasser, see: Ezra b. Samuel 
Azariah b. Levi b. Yefet b. ‘All, Karaite 
925 

‘Azaz 301 

al-‘AzazI, see: Isma‘11 al-‘Azazi 
al-Azdi, see: al-Harith b. Khalid 
Azhar, see: Abu ‘Ali b. Azhar 
Azhar b. Jonah the Spaniard (see also: 

Jonah b. Judah) 754, 813 
Azhar ha-Levi b. Shabbat 283 
al-‘AzIz, caliph (who is Abu Mansur 
Nizar) 337, 357, 367, 549, 552, 553, 
557, 558, 559, 560, 561, 562, 563, 564, 
565, 569, 589, 672, 698, 699, 803, 809 
al-Azraq, see: Moses b. Semah 


921 



INDEX 


‘Azriqam the scribe, a Karaite, Ramla 936 

b. Abi’l-Haffaz, see: Abu’l-A‘la b. 

Mevorakh ha-Kohen 
b. Abi Rujayf, see: Aaron b. Jacob 
b. al-‘Akki 856 

b. ‘Allun (Egyptian secretary) see: Isaac b. 
Aaron 

b. ‘Amram Ajlsl of Amid 794 
b. Elhanan 911 
b. ‘Eli, Ramla 877 
b, al-Hallal 805 
b. al-Hijaziyya 758 
b. al-Hulaybi, see: Khalafb. Joseph 
b. Jurjls, a Christian governor 779 
b. al-Khayr al-ger , 905, 906 
b. Mansur, Fustat 818 
b. Meir, Fustat (see also: Solomon he-haver 
b. Meir rash ha-seder), 876 
b, al-Mu‘allima, see: Mansur b. al- 
Mu'allima 

b. Mua'mmar, governor ofjerusalem 600 
b. Nufay‘, see: Solomon b. Saadia 
b. al-Qazzaz, see: Manasseh b. Abraham 
b. Qitos 804 
b. al-Raqqi, Fustat 763 
b, Sabra, Fustat (see also: Yeshu'a b. 
Sabgha) 805 

b. Sha'ya, see: Joshua b. Sha‘ya 
b. Shiblun 346 

b. al-Sippori (see also: Judah ibn al- 
‘Usfura) 876 

b. al-Zahiri, see: Berakhot ha-Kohen b. 
Aaron 

hah, abwdb, gates of the Temple Mount; see 
also: gates 841, 842 
bab al-abwab 842 
bab al-akhmas 841, 842 
bab al-asbat (the Sheep gate, St. Stephen’s 
gate, the Lions’ gate, Jehoshaphat’s 
gate) 81, 609, 624, 629, 669, 712, 839, 
846, 943 

bab ‘Atika, in the Prophet’s mosque in 
Medina 841 
bab al-'atm 839 
bab al-‘ayn 842 
bab al-baqar 842 
bab al-bartd, Damascus 489 
bab Buraq (see also: masjid al-Buraq) 842 
bab Da’ud 842 
bab al-Hashimln 842 
bab hitta 842, 843, 844 
bab al-jaua’iz 841 
abwdb aUkhamsa 841 
bab al-Khidr 842 
bab al-maghdra, Jerusalem 839 


bab rnihrab Maryam 842 
bab al-qazz (‘the silk gate’), Baghdad 549 
bab (abwdb) al-rahma 158, 624, 828, 830, 
836, 840, 841 
bab al-sakina 842 
bab al-saqar 842 
bab sharaf al-anbiya' 839 
bab Sulayman 842 
bab al-siiq, in Medina 841 
bab al-tau>ba 842 
bab Umm Khalid 842 
bab al-wadi 842 
bab al-Walid 842 . 
bab al-Yahud 300 
bab al-zaytun, Ramla 469 
abwdb al-nabi 842 

Babshad ha-Kohen b. David (see also: 

David b. Babshad) 927 
Babylonia (see also: Iraq) 241, 286, 471, 

7 28, 732, 735, 737, 739, 741, 742, 762, 
765, 772, 773, 775, 785, 786, 788, 789, 
796, 800, 806, 807, 809, 810, 816, 821, 
828, 835, 849, 868, 885, 886, 891, 902, 
915, 918, 923, 928, 933 
Babylonians 278, 283, 285, 370, 371, 383, 
564, 589, 739, 740, 742, 751, 752, 754, 
760, 761, 762-772, 773, 783, 784, 786, 
787, 790, 793, 795, 796, 797, 798, 799, 
800, 804, 805, 806, 808, 814, 817, 821, 
831, 834, 849, 860, 868, 875, 879, 886, 
893, 903, 911, 922, 945 
Badal b. Tobiah 743 
Badr, in Hijaz 2, 141 
Badr al-Jamalt, wazlr 304, 549, 603, 606, 
607, 610, 913 

Baghdad 1, 72, 109, 174, 269, 298, 328, 
370, 386, 395, 400, 410, 422, 427, 433, 
439, 453, 455, 468, 469, 473, 475, 476, 
477, 491, 497, 498, 506, 512, 515, 519, 
524, 543, 548, 549, 550, 557, 558, 561, 
563, 568, 575, 577, 598, 602, 603, 607, 
609, 611, 626, 633, 634, 635, 642, 644, 
650. 652, 654, 655, 661, 679, 680, 701 
711, 720, 746, 762, 765, 767, 773, 774, 
776, 778, 786, 789, 797, 809, 815, 819, 
821, 852, 862, 864, 886, 888, 891, 896, 
910, 915, 917, 921, 922, 926 
al-Baghdadi, see: Ahmad b. Salih; Rawh 
ha-Kohen b. Pinhas 
Bagrat IV, king of Georgia 670 
Baha’ b. Yazid (see also: Yazld b. Salam) 
104 

Bahan (or Mahan), Byzantine commander 
44, 48, 54, 58, 59, 61 
Bahdal b. Unayf 93 
Bahira, monk 869 


922 



INDEX 


Bahlul b. Joseph 795 

Bahr Lut, The Dead Sea 122 

Bahram, the leader of the Hashlshiyya 328 

Bahrayn 463, 550, 740 

al-Bahzi, see: Ka‘b ibn Murra; Murra b. 

Ka‘b al-Sulaml al-Bahzi 
Bakam, a wealthy Egyptian 714 
Bakhtiyar, the Buwayhid ruler of Baghdad 
548, 550, 553, 561 

Bakjur, a Hamdanid official 559, 562, 564 
Bakkar b. Qutayba, chief cadi in Egypt 
529 

Bakr b. Mu'awiya al-Bahill 388 
(Abu Muhammad) Bakr b. Sahl b. Isma‘Il 
b. Naff al-Dumyatl 511 
Bakr b. Thabit 99 
Balaam 76 

Ba'labakk 104, 117, 139, 584, 588, 592 
balilaj, the Indian myrobalan 346 
Balis (city on the Euphrates) 123 
Balkh in Khurasan 165, 389, 502 
Balluta, daughter of Saul, Tulaytula 822, 
827, 931 
al-Balluti 372 

(daughter of) al-Balluti 372 

Balqa’ 22, 23, 29, 41, 44, 115, 122, 134, 

137, 216, 223, 232, 276, 318, 387. 388, 
393, 394, 401, 848 

al-BalqawI, see: al-Walld b. Muhammad 
ban (exxommunication; herern) 274, 363, 
383, 702, 746, 754, 757-760, 768, 775, 
783, 794, 805, 814, 821, 833, 845, 862, 
863, 868, 874, 876, 881, 894, 896, 897, 
898, 899, 905, 906, 911, 917, 921, 937 
bananas 337 

Baniyas 122, 328, 329, 603, 644, 659, 828, 
877, 916, 933, 944 
al-BaniyasI, see: Malik b. Ahmad 
al-Baniyasiyya, see: Ghaliya, daughter of 
Ashllmun 

bankers, money-changers 339 
Banu Aghlab 464 
Banu ‘Amila 34, 59, 138, 203, 223 
Banu ‘Amir (of Quraysh) 179 
Banu ‘Amir b. Lu’ayy 182 
Banu ‘Amir b. Sa‘sa‘a 166, 218 
Banu ‘Amr 153, 208 
Banu ‘Amr b. ‘Awf 129 
Banu ‘Anbar 128 
Banu Asad 23, 88, 222, 266 
Banu Ash‘ar 184, 212, 284, 399 
Banu ‘Atlk 513 
Banu Aws 129, 202, 223 
Banu Azd 96, 136, 158, 170, 171, 210, 437, 
513 

Banu Bahra 29, 44 


Banu Bakr b. Wa’il 197, 389 
Banu Balharith 44 
Banu Ball 29, 33, 59, 64 
Banu Balqln 59 
Banu al-Dar 201 
Banu Dubayb 32 
Banu Fahm 66 
Banu Fazara 545, 600 
Banu Ghanm b. ‘Awf 141 
Banu Ghassan 23, 29, 31, 34, 44, 53, 59, 
88, 140, 148, 204, 450 
Banu Ghatafan 149, 217 
Banu Ghudhra 33 
Banu Hablba, see: Banu Hanina 
Banu Hamadan 146 
Banu Hamadhan 88, 93 
Banu Hamdan, the Hamdanids 367, 

477-479, 545, 548, 447, 559, 562, 563, 
565, 702 

Banu Hanlfa 95, 197 

Banu Hanina 38 

Banu Harith b. Ka‘b 558 

Banu Haritha 202 

Banu Hashim 100, 441, 494 

Banu Hilal 384 

Banu Himyar b. Saba 131, 207 
Banu Hudhayl 191, 221 
Banujafna 140 

Banujanba, see: Banu Hanina 
Banu Jarrah 545, 550, 553, 554, 555, 557, 
559, 566, 577-592, 658, 699, 716, 864 
Banu Ja'wana b. Shaytan b. Wahb 222 
Banujudham 21, 22, 23, 28, 29, 31, 32, 

33, 34, 44, 59, 63, 88, 89, 92, 93, 94, 
101, 138-139, 203, 223, 312, 393, 410, 
422 

Banujuhayna 167, 211 
Banujumah 145, 103, 223 
Banu Kalb 44, 93, 119, 335, 410, 422, 468, 
585, 592 

Banu Khath'am 132, 202 
Banu Khawlan 146, 181, 205 
Banu Khazraj 141, 142, 158, 202, 223 
Banu Khushayn 193 
Banu Khushkhash 134 
Banu Khuza'a 154, 173, 209, 234 
Banu Khuzayma 222 
Banu Kilab 99, 166, 218, 477, 592 
Banu Kinana 88, 89, 93, 99, 130, 138, 148, 
152, 185, 190, 200, 214, 223 
Banu Kinda 44, 63, 91, 153, 155, 183, 190, 
208, 223, 232 

Banu Kitama 464, 562, 563, 598, 782 
Banu Lakhm 2, 23, 29, 34, 44, 59, 63, 88, 
189, 196, 201, 213, 223, 312, 393, 414, 
421, 422 

Banu Madhhij 88, 147, 150, 159, 171, 179, 
206 


923 



INDEX 


Banu Makhzum 63 

Banu Mas'ud b. Umayya 145 

Banu Mudar 99, 393 

Banu Murra (Ghatafan) 149, 217 

Banu Murra (Kinana) 130, 214, 328, 545 

Banu Nadir 21, 157 

Banu Nahshal 407 

Banu’l-Najjar 69, 158 

Banu Nizar 393 

Banu Qahtan 131 

Banu’l-Qasamil 197 

Banu Qayla 202 

Banu’l-Qayn 393 

Banu Qaynuqa 1 141, 156 

Banu Qays 93, 223, 393, 394, 410, 451, 

562 

Banu Qays ‘Aylan 66, 130, 132, 215 
Banu Quda‘a 28, 29, 31, 33, 59, 88, 89, 93, 
147, 167, 193, 211, 394, 410 
Banu Quraysh 2, 12, 18, 30, 32, 42, 44, 
145, 162, 163, 173, 179, 182, 187, 194, 
223, 437, 454 

Banu Qurayza 21, 36, 112, 157, 225 

Banu Qurra 587 

Banu Rabl'a 422, 425, 428, 521 

Banu Sakun 223, 232 

Banu Salih 44 

Banu Sayban 168, 207 

Banu Shayban 422 

Banu Sinhaja 882 

Banu Sulaym 88, 130, 132, 169, 215, 600 
Banu Sulaym (in the Maghrib) 384, 480 
Banu Taghlib 188, 220, 224, 255, 477 
Banu Tamlm 44, 118, 128, 180, 219, 407, 
439 

Banu Tanukh 44 

Banu Taym (al-Ribab) 222 

Banu Tayy’ 36, 53, 545, 553, 554, 557, 

559, 562, 563, 585, 592, 599 
Banu Thaqlf 137, 216, 507 
Banu ‘Uqayl 218, 388, 411, 480, 481, 482, 
545, 547, 548, 550, 553, 557, 585, 588, 
592, 599 

Banu ‘Uqayl b. Ka‘b 166 
Banu Wa’il 21, 29 
Banu Zlrl 882 
Banu Zubayd 147, 206 
Banu Zuhra 162 
baqam, brazilwood 353, 380, 871 
Baqbaq, amir, step-father of Ahmad ibn 
Tulun 456 

Bar-Sawma, monk (the fifth century) 1 
bara’a, tax receipt 261 
Barada, canal in Ramla 116 
Baradai b. Bustanai 885, 926 
The BaradanI family (see also: Joseph b. 


Sahl; Nahum b. Sahl the cantor; 
Nahum b. Yannai; Yannai b. Nahum) 
298, 828, 899 

Barakat b, Hillel al-Ramll b, Qartaway 804 
Bardas Phocas, the domesticus, Byzantine 
commander 559 
Barhun, see: Abraham 
Bari 721, 727, 776 

Barjawan, leader of the Turks in Egypt 
564 

Barqa 753, 758, 823 
al-Barql, see: David ha-Levi b. Aaron 
Baruch b. Isaac, Aleppo 300, 911, 950 
Baruch b. Isaac from Byzantium 823 
Basaq, see: Masllah b. Eliah 
al-BasasIrl, Turkish rebel 598 
the Bashan461, 468, 545 
(Abu-1 Yaman) Bashir b. ‘Aqraba al- 
Juhanl, governor 167 
Bashir b. Nahum, see: Ezra b. Bashir; 

‘Imran b. Bashir 
(. anba ) Basil, Ramla 674 
Basil, bishop of Sebastia 674 
Basil II, emperor 559, 563, 566 
Basil, a monk from Jerusalem 687 
Basil, patriarch of Jerusalem 683, 689, 690 
Basra, Iraq 88, 97, 111, 161, 169, 181, 197, 
289, 367, 389, 439, 463, 496, 513, 757, 
832, 925, 927 

al-Basrl, see: Hiba ibn Isra’Il al-A‘raj 
the bath-house in Jerusalem 839 
the baths of Elijah the prophet 297 
al-Batnan, in the Ascalon area 231 
Bavaria 724 

ha-BavlI, see: Jacob b. Joseph 
Baward 823 

al-Bawardl, see: Sedaqa b. ‘Eli 

Bayt ‘Aynun 201, 337, 504 

Bayt Bura in Egypt 714 

Bayt Mamin 429 

Bayt Ra’s 57, 122 

al-Bazzar, see: Ahmad b. ‘Amr 

al-Bazzaz, textile merchant 339 

Beda, Christian traveller 664 

Bedouin 590, 854, 856 

Beersheba (also: Sab‘) 88, 98, 122, 230 

Beirut 71, 114, 337, 550, 611, 630, 906, 

943 

Ben Meir, see: Aaron b. Meir 

Ben Naphtali 292 

Benaya b. Musa, Alexandria 755 

Bene Salma’a 76 

Benedictines 667 

Benedictus, monk 397 

Benjamin al-Nihawandl 825, 919, 920, 928 

Benjamin of Tiberias 7 


924 



INDEX 


Benjamin, Tiberias (AD 940) 285 
Benjamin b. Joseph of Warjlan (brother of 
Isaac and Moses), a Karaite 827 
Benno II, bishop of Osnabriick 724 
(Abu’l-Barakat) Berakha b, Rawh, Fustat 
851, 875, 879 

Berakhot he-haver , Fustat 805 
Berakhot ha-Kohen b. Aaron, known as b. 
al-Zahirl 365 

Berbers 274, 464, 545, 547, 562, 563, 564, 
598, 780, 782 
bent tam 798 

(The monk) Bernard, Christian traveller 
396, 456, 665, 666, 667, 669, 675, 682, 
694,701,721,939 
Beser (Bishr) 97 

Bet Guvrin 41, 54, 55, 121, 196, 223, 311, 
339, 392, 411, 553, 585, 708, 941 
Bet Mama (?) 941 

Bet ha-miqdash, Bayt al-maqdis (=Jerusalem, 
Palestine) 125, 311, 317, 482, 825, 

829, 835, 924 

Bet Shean 44, 57, 113, 121, 122, 128, 153, 
180, 201, 232, 317, 321, 337, 365, 661, 
944 

bet ha-wa'ad (house of the congregation) 

899 

Bethlehem 56, 65, 109, 112, 114, 201, 213, 
675, 680, 681, 708 

Blkand, in the region of Bukhara 431 
Bilbays 301, 308, 315, 328, 416, 864, 949 
birkat al-Khayzuran (the reed pool), near 
Ramla 553 

Bishara, governor of Tiberias 552, 559, 

502, 564 

Bishr b. Rawh al-Muhallabl 388 
al-Bitriq b. Naka (or Bakar) 116 
Biyar, in the region of Qumis 280, 612 
(battalions of) the blacks in the Fatimid 
army 591, 598 

Boaz the cantor b. David, Baniyas, Ramla 
328, 828 

Boaz b. Jehoshaphat b. Josiah, nasi 852, 

926 

books 

adab al-khawass, by al-Husayn b. ‘All 
al-WazIr al-Maghribi 557 
agadat tehillim 342 
haldkhdt gedolot 342, 762 
istidrak al-sahw 810 
horayat ha-qore 776 

met'o' ha-talmiid, by Samuel b. Hofni 342 
i'tilal al-quliib, by Abu Nu'aym 
Muhammad b. Ja'far al-Khara’iti 522 
al-jumal fi’l-nahu>, by ‘Abd al-Rahman 
ibn Ishaq al-Zajjajl 491 


kitab al-hadith, by Abu’l-Hasan Adam b. 

Abi Iyas from Ascalon 439 
kitab al-kharaj, by Mu'awiya b. Yashar 
399 

kitab al-za’ wa’l-dad 293 
makarim al-akhlaq, by Abu Nu'aym 
Muhammad b. Ja'far al-Khara’iti 522 
al-mamdlik wa’l-malahim 608 
masawi al-akhlaq, by Abu Nu'aym 
Muhammad b. Ja'far al-Khara’iti 522 
me’dr ‘enayim 286 
al-nawadir, by Abu Shanbal 166 
dr 'enayim, 286 
Responsa of Ben Meir 851 
sharaf al-sayf, by Abu’l ‘Ala’ al-Ma‘arri 
584 

'uyiin al-akhbdr, by Idris b. al-Hasan 
‘Imad al-din 545, 547 
Bovo of Bremen 725 
Brazilwood, see: baqam 
bread 336, 338, 610 
Bremen 725 

bribes 248, 260, 361, 599, 847, 941 
Bugha al-Sharabi ( al-saghir) 422 
al-Buhuri, see: ‘Amram b. Levi 
Bukhara 431, 526 
al-Bukhari, the traditionist 439 
Bulgars 563, 566 

Biilus (Paulus) b. Hanun, physician 702 

Bundar, a freedman 854 

Bunyan b. Abu Nasr 328 

al-Buraq 109 

Buslr 830 

Busra in the Hawran 53, 106, 352 
Bust in Sijistan 613 

Bustanai, exilarch 728, 778, 852, 870, 879, 
885, 902, 926 

al-Busti, see: ‘Ubaydallah b. Muhammad 
Butayn, poet 705 

Buwayhids (or Buyids) 548, 553, 557, 558 
Buza'a 300 

Byzantines, Byzantium (also: Edom; 
al-Rum) 1, 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15, 
17, 20, 21, 22, 23, 26, 27, 29, 30, 31, 

34, 44, 48, 49, 50, 53, 54, 57, 59, 60, 

61, 62, 65, 68, 70, 71, 72, 73, 75, 76, 

77, 81, 83, 84, 87, 93, 97, 102, 106, 

116, 117, 121, 122, 124, 140, 163, 168, 
201, 223, 235, 236, 241, 242, 243, 257, 
264, 275, 328, 334, 342, 351, 353, 355, 
361, 362, 369, 372, 376, 382, 387, 388, 
389, 394, 398, 418, 419, 455, 474, 482, 
484, 485, 544, 545, 547, 550, 551, 554, 
559, 561, 562, 563, 564, 565, 566, 567, 
569, 571, 576, 577, 578, 587, 588, 592, 


925 



INDEX 


Byzantines-— (coni.) 

597, 598, 599, 601, 603, 608, 661, 663, 
665, 666, 669, 676, 677, 699, 700, 7 02, 
703, 704, 707, 710, 712, 713, 714, 716, 
719, 720, 721, 723, 727, 731, 741, 742, 
746, 761, 774, 775, 776, 777, 810, 821, 
822, 823, 827, 828, 829, 911, 914, 923, 
931, 934, 939 

Caesarea (see also: Hasor, Sedaqa al- 

Qaysaranl) 1, 2, 8, 51,'54, 65, 66, 69, 
70, 72, 75, 93, 116, 117, 122, 231, 270, 
328, 330, 331, 332, 492, 538, 550, 564, 
584, 585, 607, 609, 653, 661, 698, 706, 
710, 747, 775, 857, 906, 913, 943, 944 
Caesarea of Cappadocia 8, 72, 672, 701 
Calabria 561 

the calendar 570, 738, 739, 773, 784-789, 
831, 832, 840, 849, 850, 851, 852, 869, 
874, 915, 918, 922, 926, 928-929 
camphor, see kafir 
candidatus, Byzantine title 52 
cannibalism 608 
Capernaum 2, 674 
Cappadocia 8, 140 
the Cardo, Jerusalem 669, 712 
carobs 337 
the Caspian Sea 921 
Castile 940 
Catalonia 868 
Caucasus 9 

Cave of the Betrayal, near Gethsemane 667 
Cave ofMachpelah 114, 304, 315, 593, 

899, 943, 944 
the cave of Zedekiah 839 
cedar resin, see: kathira 
the chair (of the cantors, on the Mount of 
Olives) 833 

Charlemagne 351, 395-398, 667, 681, 682, 
688, 719, 721 

cheese 315, 328, 347, 596, 832, 911, 930, 
935 

cherries, see: qarashiyya 
China 740 

Chozeba, see: Koziba 

Christian, Christians (see also: ‘arellm) 1, 

7, 9, 17, 26, 30, 36, 39, 46, 53, 56, 60, 
68, 69, 71, 75, 79, 80, 81, 82, 84, 88, 
97, 98, 100, 105, 106, 107, 141, 175, 
188, 201, 220, 224, 225, 236, 240, 247, 
250, 252, 255, 256, 265, 267, 269, 270, 
271, 273, 275, 276, 277-279, 282, 284, 
303, 305, 310, 313, 315, 329, 333, 334, 
339, 354, 370, 376, 378, 385, 386, 390, 
395-398, 410, 414, 415, 424, 458, 483, 
484, 485, 547, 551, 554, 555, 560, 562, 
564, 566, 569, 570, 571, 572, 574, 576, 


577, 578, 579, 581, 584, 587, 596, 597, 
600, 601, 607, 608, 690, 661-727, 730, 
746, 815, 829, 834, 837, 846, 848, 911, 
914, 919, 921, 922, 934, 939, 943, 950 
Christodulus of Aleppo, patriarch of 
Alexandria 695 

Christodulus, bishop of Ascalon 569 
Christodulus I ibn Bahram, patriarch of 
Jerusalem 683, 697, 701, 710 
(Abu Sahl) Christodulus II (Habib, 

Agapios), of Caesarea, patriarch of 
Jerusalem 683, 698 

Christopher, patriarch of Alexandria 690 
Christophoros, a Muslim who converted 
to Christianity 708 

Church of the Annunciation, Nazareth 
674, 706 

Church of the Ascension 106, 107, 666 
Church of al-‘Azariyya 700 
Church of Cosmas, Jerusalem 669, 710 
Church of Constantine, Jerusalem (= the 
martyrium ) 81, 485, 569, 669, 701, 710, 
716 

Church of Dometius, Jerusalem 670 
Church of Elijah, on Mount Tabor 673 
Church of the Forty Saints, Jerusalem 667 
Church of Gethsemane (see also: 
Gethsemane) 667 

Church of the Golgotha 92, 569, 665, 680, 
710 

Church of the Holy Cross, Jerusalem 670, 
680 

Church of the Holy Sepulchre (see also: 
al-qumdma) 81, 87, 105, 106, 114, 246, 
414, 418, 484, 562, 569, 570, 574, 576, 
662, 605, 607, 689, 700, 714, 717 
Church of Kafr Kana 322 
Church of Mary ‘the Latin’, Jerusalem 584, 
718 

Church of Mary Magdalene, Jerusalem 678 
Church of Moses, on Mount Tabor 673 
Church on the Mount of Olives (the 
Eleona) 666 

Church of the Nativity (= the Church of 
St Mary), Bethlehem 675, 712 
Church of the Nea 11, 87, 398, 662, 669 
Church ‘of the pupils’ 666 
Church of the Resurrection 352, 483, 385, 
569, 571, 574, 576, 578, 597, 598, 608, 
665, 680, 687, 696, 699, 700, 7 01, 704, 
706, 709, 710, 712, 716 
Church of St Aquilina, Jerusalem 667 
Church of St Christopher, Jerusalem 667 
Church of St Cyriacus 669, 709, 710 
Church of St George, Jerusalem 669 
Church of St George, Lod 80, 116, 699 


926 



INDEX 


Church of St Jacob, in the Kidron Valley 

668 

Church of St John the Baptist 92 
Church of St John, Ascalon 483 
Church of St John, Damascus 58, 704 
Church of St John, near Jerusalem 669 
Church of St Leontius, Jerusalem 667 
Church of St Mamilla, Jerusalem 670 
Church of St Mark in Fustat 566, 570 
Church of St Mary, Bethlehem, see: 

Church of the Nativity 
Church of St Mary in the Kidron Valley 
228, 396, 662, 666, 667 
Church of St Mary on Mt. Zion 606 
Church of St Mary in probation 669 
Church of St Mary the green, Ascalon 483, 
711 

Church of St Peter, Jerusalem 669 
Church of the Saviour, on Mount Tabor 
673 

Church of St Sergius, Jerusalem 669 
Church of St Sergius, in Nessana 36 
Church of St Simeon, see: Church of Zion 
Church of St Sophia, in Constantinople 69 
Church of St Sophia, Jerusalem 669 
Church of St Stephen, Jerusalem 670 
Church of St Thaleleus 669 
Church of St Theodore, Alexandria 698 
Church of St Theodore, Jerusalem 669 
Church of the Transfiguration, on Mount 
Tabor 673 

Church of Zion 81, 594, 669 
the Church Council in Aachen (November 
809) 681 

the Church Council in Chalcedon (in 451) 
661 

the Church Council (the sixth) in 
Constantinople (in 680-681) 684 
the Church Council (the eighth) in 
Constantinople (in 869) 694 
the Church Council in Ephesus (in 431) 

661 

the Church Council in Erfurt (in 932) 484, 
845 

the Church Council in Friuli (in 796) 681 
the Church Council in Lateran (in 649) 

663, 672 

the Church Council in Nicaea (in 787) 687 
the Church Council in Saragossa (in 380) 
681 

the Church Council in Toledo (in 400 and 
in 633) 681 
Cilicia 482 

cinnamon (see also: qirfa) 346 
Citadel of St Mary, Sicily 721 
Citadel of Sufyan, Tripoli 71 


City of David 606, 668, 848 
coins 121, 367, 486 
community 762, 790-794, 876, 893 
conditional divorce 823 
conditions of‘Umar 238 
Conrad, bishop of Konstanz 722 
Conrad II, emperor 724 
Constans, emperor 92 
Constantine I, emperor 1, 69, 82, 700 
Constantine II, emperor 87 
Constantine IV, emperor (Pogonatus) 93 
Constantine V, emperor (Copronymus) 
102, 388, 398, 672, 686, 707 
Constantine VII, emperor 

(Porphyrogenitus) 396, 697, 701 
Constantine IX, emperor (Monomachus) 
376, 601, 672, 716 

St Constantine, leader of the Georgian 
Church 680 

Constantinople 9, 48, 62, 65, 69, 81, 284, 
355, 376, 395, 484, 562, 566, 576, 598, 
661, 663, 665, 681, 685, 687, 694, 699, 
709, 712, 716, 721, 723, 724, 804, 916, 
938, 939 
copper 871 

Copts 10, 26, 242, 458, 566, 570, 661, 678 
copying of books 286, 324, 325, 342—344, 
376 

Cordova 398 

Cosmas, bishop of Epiphania 686 
Cosmas, a Nestorian emissary to Jerusalem 
679 

Cosmas, patriarch of Alexandria 686 
cotton, see: qutn 
Crete 482 

Crusaders 70, 75, 76, 114, 120, 201, 289, 
301, 303, 307, 308, 309, 315, 328, 329, 
334, 342, 360, 367, 483, 545, 553, 564, 
608, 609, 611, 626, 630, 668, 673, 677, 
678, 699, 727, 747, 791, 834, 839, 845, 
899, 916, 936, 940, 942-950 
cubicularius, Byzantine rank 54 
Cyprus 117, 350, 482, 601, 699, 709, 718 
Cyril II, patriarch of Antioch 678 

dabiqi, see: thawh dabiqi 
Dabya, see: Dathin 
Dagobert, king of the Franks 10 
al-Dahhak b, Qays al-Fihri 93 
da't, Fatimid missionary 466 
dajjdlW, 111 
Dajun 116, 520, 889 
al-Dakka, near Damascus 558 
Dalata (Daltun) 319, 325, 326, 329, 342, 
344, 853, 900 

Damascus 1, 2, 5, 44, 48, 53, 58, 59, 60, 


927 



INDEX 


Damascus—( cont .) 

61, 62, 65, 71, 72, 74, 93, 94, 95, 97, 
98, 99, 105, 113, 116, 120, 140, 149, 
150, 153, 155, 156, 185, 187, 225, 238, 
240, 244, 256, 262, 264, 265. 268, 269, 
278, 304, 317, 324, 328, 337, 342, 344, 
355, 358, 364, 367, 376, 385, 391, 410, 
414, 415, 422, 434, 439, 443, 456, 460, 
461, 465, 466, 467, 468, 473, 477, 478, 
479, 481, 488, 489, 490, 491, 498, 545, 
547, 548, 550, 552, 553, 555, 558, 560, 
562, 563, 564, 565, 566, 568, 572, 579, 
584, 588, 592, 596, 599, 603, 605, 606, 
607, 608, 609, 610, 611, 624, 625, 628, 
635, 640, 652, 655, 659, 692, 701, 702, 
703, 704, 710, 711, 720, 746, 747, 748, 
753, 761, 763, 775, 777, 780, 783, 790, 
791, 795, 797, 798, 799, 800, 815, 819, 
821, 822, 823, 828, 836, 857, 862, 874, 
879, 882. 883, 885, 886, 887, 888, 890, 
897, 898, 903, 909, 910, 912, 913, 916, 
937, 948, 949 

Damdam b. ‘Uqba, cadi 406 
Damghan, in the Qumis region 416, 921 
Damianos Dalassenos, Byzantine 
commander 566 

Damietta (see also: Kaftor) 102, 721, 778, 
856, 871 

Damira 903, 912 

(Abu ‘Abdallah) Damra b. Rabl‘a al- 
Qurashl 109. 408 
al-DamsIsI, Fustat 891, 893 
Daniel al-QumisI 11, 281, 416, 669, 700, 
819, 824, 826, 921-922, 928, 931, 932, 
933, 934, 935 

Daniel b. Azariah, nasi and gaon 122, 258, 
264, 317, 328, 344, 349, 356, 358, 360, 
363, 376, 378, 380, 598, 601, 729, 738, 
750, 751, 752, 753, 755, 758, 760, 764, 
772, 773, 774, 775, 779, 781, 782, 791, 
793, 801, 802, 805, 809, 810, 813, 814, 
815, 822, 823, 828, 833, 834, 838, 846, 
852, 873, 879, 881, 885-896, 897, 898, 
902, 903, 912, 915, 937 
Daniel b. Hasdai, exilarch 809, 896,915 
Daniel b. Isaac the cantor (see also: Isaac 
al-FasI the cantor) 821 
Daniel b. Sahl 782, 798 
Daniel b. Saul, grandson of ‘Anan 732, 

788, 917, 919 
daniq 367, 860 

dar al-dibaj (‘house of the silk’), al-Qahira 
549 

dar al-fa’r, Fustat 815 

dar al-jatnd'a, Jerusalem 838, 846 

dar al-maqadisa, Fustat (see also: maqadisa) 

815 

dar al-sabbaghin, Ramla 116, 339 
dar al-sarf Fustat 372, 380 


dar Za'Im al-Mulk 903 
Dara, daughter of Solomon, Tyre, wife of 
Khalaf b. Moses b. Aaron (the son of 
Abu Qlda, the merchants’ 
representative) 348, 580 
dark bi’r al~‘askar, Ramla 116 
dark tnasjid ‘anaba, Ramla 116 
darb al-silsila, Fustat 805 
al-Darikanl, see: ‘All b. Ishaq 
al-Darir, see: Salama b. Isma'il 
Dariya, in the region of Damascus 562 
darkemonlm = dinars 368, 579, 939 
darkemontm kokhbayye 369, 817, 856 
Dartha, Samaritan leader 414, 941 
al-Darum 41, 116, 231, 337, 929 
al-Dasatira (see also: Tustaris) 780, 812 
dates 311, 321, 337 
Dathin 49 

Da’ud (Jews), see: David 
Da’ud al-‘AsqalanI, a Christian copyist 674 
Da’ud b. Ahmad, Ascalon 646 
(Abu’l-Hasan) Da’ud b. al-Faraj 929 
al-Da’udl, see: Abu Sa‘Id al-Da’udl 
(Father) David, copyist of Georgian books 
680 

David, emissary of the Jerusalem patriarch 
682 

David ha-Kohen ha-me'ulle ba-havura 296 
David ha-Kohen ‘the teacher’, a Karaite, 
Jerusalem, see: Solomon ha-Kohen b. 
David 

David the money-changer, see: Mevorakh 
b. David 

(Abu Ghalib) David ha-Levi b. Aaron 
al-Barqi 753, 761, 763, 861, 877 
(Abu Sulayman) David b. Abraham al-FasI 
940 

(Abu Sulayman) David b. Bapshad, a 
Karaite 927 

(Abu Sa‘Id) David b. Boaz b. Jehoshaphat, 
one of the Karaite nesf'tm 926, 938, 

940 

David b. Daniel b. Azariah 292, 302, 306, 
309, 315, 330, 358, 374, 378, 380, 383, 
610, 773, 774, 779, 792, 809, 811, 884, 
886, 896, 898, 899, 902-916, 937 
David b. Daniel al-QumisI 921 
David (Da’ud) b. Hasan al-Jashshl al- 
Kohen 329 

David b. Hayyim of Fustat 580 
David b. Hayyun, Karaite 828, 832 
David b. Hezekiah b. David, exilarch 773, 
77 4, 886, 898 

(Abu Nasr) David ha-Levi b. Isaac 591, 

763, 794, 803, 805, 812, 865, 881, 882, 
927 


928 



INDEX 


David b. Jacob b. Joseph b. Saadia he-hdver 
ha-hevrdni 315 

David b. Judah, exilarch 732, 788, 919 
David b. Marwan b. Suqayr 894 
David b. al-Raqql 763, 778 
David b. Semah b. Asa b. Semah b. Josiah, 
a Karaite nasi 927 

David (Da’ud) b. Sha'ya, see: Joseph b. 
David b. Sha'ya 

David b. Shekhania the cantor, Fustat (see 
also: Yefet b. David, Mansur b. 

David) 799, 805, 812, 856 
(Abu Mansur) David (Da’ud) b. Solomon 
(Sulayman, Shu’ayb), a money¬ 
changer, Tyre 364 
David b. Sughmar, see: Abraham b. 

David; Isaac b. David 
David b. Zakkai, exilarch 728, 773, 785, 
787, 849, 885, 926 
day'a, diya, estate 233, 411, 567 
(Abu’l-Fawaris) al-Dayf 569 
DaylamTs, a Persian tribe 463, 553 
the Dead Sea (see also: Bahr Lut) 19, 49, 

54, 122, 223, 311, 347, 349^ 353, 923 
Dekapolis 57, 550 
the Delta 721, 758, 760, 887 
(Abu ‘Amr) Dhakwan, son of a Jewess 
captive from Sepphoris 2 
Dhat atlah 27, 28 
Dhat ai-salasil 33, 41 

dhimmis, dhimma 36-40, 98, 236-274, 276, 
282, 326, 707, 710, 712, 778, 815 
dhimmis : cemeteries 269 
dhimmis: houses of prayer 269, 710, 783, 
815, 936 

dhimmis: laws of inheritance 271—272, 274, 
782, 932 

dhimmis: regulations regarding dress 
267-268 

dhimmis: served in the administration 270, 
779 

Dhukhayrat al-dawla, see: Haydara 
Dhu’l-Nun the Sufi 515 
dibaj, silk 350 

Dib'an b. Rawh b. Zinba‘ 93, 94, 98 
dihqdn 90 

Dihya b. Khalifa al-Kalbi 32 
Dilaz, in the Fayyum 787 
al-Dimashqi, see: Yahya; Mukhtar b. 

Salama; Meshullam b. Shurayq 
dinars, ahmadi 367 
dinars, ikhshidi 367 
dinars, mutallas 367 
dinars, nizdri 337, 368 
dinars, rubd'i, quarter-dinar coin (plural: 
rubd'iyya) 367, 369, 377, 839 


dinars, shdburi 368, 369 
dinars, lari, in Sicily 252 
dinars, of Tyre 368, 814 
al-Dinawari, see: ‘All b. Muhammad 
dirhams nuqra, silver coins 363, 871 
dirhams, waraq 337, 338, 364, 369 
dlwan 386 

diwan al-insha ', Fatimid state secretariat 649 
diyoqne 248, 252, 296, 299, 359, 364, 383, 
588, 753, 754, 817 

al-Dizbirl, see: Anushtakin b. ‘Abdallah 
Dome of the Rock 86, 102-108, 114, 153, 
406, 417, 418, 419, 580, 593, 594, 600, 
602, 714, 884, 943 
Dominicus, monk 666 
Dor 337, 663 

(Abu Mansur) Dosa b. Joshua b, Dosa 750 
Dosa b. Joshua al-LadhiqT (see also: Joshua 
b. Dosa) 891 
Dosa b. Saadia 868 

Dositheans (Samaritans) 411, 414, 941 

dried rose-petals 346 

dnmgarius, a Byzantine rank 54, 61 

Dubya, see: Dathin 

Duluk 297 

al-Dumyati, see: Bakr b. Sahl 

Dunash b. Labrat 917 

Duqaq b. Tutush b. Alp Arslan 606 

Durri, a government official in Ramla 568 

al-Dustari, see: Joseph b. Israel al-Tustari 

dyers 339 

earthquakes 92, 102, 283, 287, 302, 416, 
417, 418, 580, 595, 844 
Edessa (also: Ruha) 105, 607, 704 
Edo of Hamburg 724 
Egilbald, monk from the Mount of Olives 
681 

Egypt, passim 
the Egyptian scroll 572 
Eilat (Ayla) 2, 21, 36, 38, 39, 44, 93, 95, 
122, 123, 175-178, 276, 313, 367, 403, 
404, 410, 443-452, 491, 540, 559, 582, 
583, 588, 602, 636, 832 
Ein-Gedi 19 

Eleazar, father of Semah, see: Semah 
Eleazar <i/m/ 917 
Eleazar ha-dayydn 790 
Eleazar, high priest of the Samaritans 10, 
941 

Eleazar b. Azariah 853 
Eleazar ha-Levi b. Joseph 328 
Eleazar b. Joseph ha-Levi 860 
Eleazar b. Joseph, ahiiv ha-yeshiva, 

Caesarea 747 

Eleazar ha-Kallir, the poet 287 


929 



INDEX 


Eleazar ha-Kohen b. Elijah Gaon (brother 
of Abiathar) 315, 900 

Eleazar ‘the teacher’ b. Samuel al-MaghribT 
868, 871, 875, 879, 881 
Eleazar ha-Kohen b. Solomon 853 
Eleazar ha-Kohen ha-mumhe, the judge, b. 
Zechariah, of Gaza (see also: 

Zechariah ha-Kohen b. Kulayb) 309 
Elhanan 285 

Elhanan, grandfather of Elhanan b. 
Shemaria 795 

Elhanan, grandfather of Samuel b. Moses, 
Tyre 300 

Elhanan b. Hushiel 933 
Elhanan b. Shemaria (see also: Shemaria b. 
Elhanan) 571, 572, 579, 580, 780, 782, 
784, 7 95-800, 861, 875 
‘Eli ha-Kohen, a poet 852, 885 
‘Eli ha-Levi b. Aaron, Ramla 283 
‘Eli ha-Kohen he-haver ha-me'uUe b. 

Abraham (father of Tobiah and Meir) 
328 

‘Eli ha-mumhe b. Abraham b. Samuel ‘the 
third’, Jerusalem 330, 761, 804, 857, 
858, 886, 897 

(Abu’l-Hasan) ‘Eli he-haver ha-me‘ulle b. 
‘Amram (= ‘Allun) 262, 296, 300, 

344, 378, 594, 738, 750, 751, 752, 755, 
760, 761, 179, 791, 793, 805, 813, 814, 
823, 885, 891, 893, 894, 895, 896, 901, 
911 

‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel, Jerusalem (see 
also: Ezekiel ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli, his son; 
Khalaf b. ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel) 
248, 260, 301, 315, 331, 352, 353, 356, 
359, 380, 384, 596, 600, 604, 610, 750, 
753, 758, 761, 777, 779, 810, 811, 813, 
815, 819, 823, 828, 832, 834, 845, 876, 
881, 890, 891, 892, 895, 897, 901, 904, 
909, 927, 941 

‘Eli b, Ezra, see: Mevorakh b. ‘Eli 
(Abu'l-Hasan) ‘Eli ha-Kohen the pa mas b. 
Hayyim 262, 301, 306, 307, 309, 315, 
600, 750, 761, 111, 782, 783, 810, 811, 
821, 832, 892, 895, 898, 901, 905, 906, 
907, 909 

‘Eli the cantor b. Joshua al-Ladhiql 790, 

866 

‘Eli b. Sedaqa 821 

‘Eli b. Solomon b. Rabi‘ (see also: 

Solomon b. Rabl‘) 348 
‘Eli b. Yefet, Ascalon 307, 898 
‘Eli b. Yefet, trustee for the orphans of 
Moses ha-Kohen b. Ghulayb, Fustat 
868 


‘Eli b. Yefet ha-Levi, Damascus 821 
Elia da Castrogiovanni 695, 721 
Elia Jawhari, Nestorian bishop of 
Jerusalem 679 

Eliah, a poor man from Constantinople 
804 

Eliah of Salonika 929 
Eliah ha-Kohen ‘the fourth’ b. Abiathar 
910, 917, 916 

Eliah b. Abraham the Karaite 825, 917 
Eliah ha-Kohen al-Siqilli b. Jacob 779 
Elias, synkellos in Jerusalem 694 
Elias (II), patriarch of Jerusalem 392, 683, 
686, 687, 688 

Elias (III) ibn Mansur, patriarch of 
Jerusalem 458^ 682, 683, 695, 711, 

714, 715 

Elijah b. Aaron b. Josiah 301 
Elijah ha-Kohen ( Av ) bet din b. Abraham 
773 

Elijah b. Menahem 840 
Elijah ha-Kohen Gaon b. Mordecai (the 
10th century) 853 

Elijah ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon 302, 
307, 317, 319, 325, 329, 354, 363, 375, 
376, 380, 573, 596, 604, 609, 745, 752, 
755, 756, 758, 772, 774, 775, 111, 779, 
780, 783, 791, 792, 801, 802, 811, 813, 
822, 823, 846, 853, 855, 858, 863, 865, 
868, 869, 873, 874, 876, 881, 883, 886, 
889, 890, 897-900, 901, 902, 908, 933, 
937, 940 

Ephraim ha-Kohen b. Abraham 767, 782, 
812, 858, 864, 865 
Ephraim b. al-‘AnI(?) 764 
Ephraim b. Buya‘a 290 
Ephraim he-haver b. ‘Eli see: Aaron b. 
Ephraim 

Ephraim b. Shemaria (see also: Joseph, and 
Ghalib b. Moses, his sons in law) 248, 
249, 251, 252, 254, 255, 264, 274, 297, 
299, 301, 307, 309, 340, 359, 360, 363, 
364, 378, 383, 384, 589, 591, 595, 738, 
746, 748, 7 49, 750, 758, 759, 760, 761, 
763, 764, 766, 767, 768, 769, 775, 776, 
779, 780, 782, 790, 792, 7 93, 794, 
801-805, 808, 812, 813, 814, 815, 818, 
819, 822, 823, 828, 831, 834, 845, 851, 
854, 855, 856, 857, 858, 859, 861, 862, 
863, 864, 865, 866, 868, 869, 875, 858, 
861, 862, 863, 864, 865, 866, 868, 869, 
875, 876, 877, 879, 880, 881, 882, 883, 
884, 885, 891, 895, 897, 898, 933 
Ephraim b. Tarasun, Fustat (see also: 

Palti’el ha-hazan b. Ephraim) 572 
Epiphanius 661, 669 


930 



INDEX 


epitropos 359, 365, 366, 739, 835, 868, 

869, 875, 888, 901, 932 
era of King Jehoiachin 929 
era of Panodoros 87 
Eres sevi 590, 595, 795 
estates (see also: day'a, iqta') 71, 230-233, 
335, 411, 567, 941 

Esther, daughter of Joseph b. ‘Amram the 
judge 807 

Esther, of the TahirtI family 374 
Ethiopia, Ethiopians 5, 27, 44 
etrog 337 

Eudocia, empress 1, 847 
Eudocia’s wall 847 

Euphrates 17, 23, 42, 53, 123, 241, 443, 

460, 468, 476, 548, 554, 676, 728, 885 
Europe 351, 777, 829 
Eusebius 826 

Eustachius, Georgian monk in Sinai 680 
Euthymius, founder of Mar Saba 672 
Euthymius, patriarch ofjerusalem 683, 699 
Eutychius, patriarch of Alexandria 691 
exilarch(s) (see also: nasi) 254, 564, 610, 

728, 729, 732, 733, 746, 757, 763, 
773-774, 775, 788, 790, 796, 797, 798, 
807, 809, 835, 852, 856, 879, 885, 887, 
890, 891, 892, 902, 904, 907, 908, 909, 
915, 917, 918, 920, 926, 933, 935 
‘Eyn ‘Eytam 846 
‘Eyn Rogel (= bi’r Ayyub) 847 
(Abu Nasr) Ezekiel ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli 
ha-Kohen b. Ezekiel 810, 899, 904, 
909, 910 

Ezra, see also: Makhluf b. Azariah 
(Abu Sahl) Ezra 786 

Ezra, head of the Palestinian yeshiva 801 
Ezra b. Bashir b. Nahum, Alexandria 
(brother of‘Imran) 903 
Ezra b. Joseph b. Ibrahim al-Nakhuda, a 
Karaite 360 

Ezra b. Samuel b. Azariah, a Karaite 812 
‘Ezrun Gaon (b. Joseph) 852, 853, 854 

Fadak 27 

Fadl b. Daniel, Fustat 817 
(Abu’l-Fath) Fadl b. Ja‘far b. Muhammad 
b. al-Furat, Abbasid wazlr 475, 476 
Fadl b. Sahl al-Tustarl, see: Hesed b. Sahl 
Fadl b. Salih, Abbasid 718 
(Abu’l-Futuh) Fadl b. Salih, Fatimid 
commander 547, 549, 557, 561 
(son of) Fadlan, see: Abu ‘All 
Fa’iq, mawld of Khumarawayh b. Ahmad 
ibn Tulun 313 
fairs 352 

al-Fallahl, see: Sadaqa b. Yusuf 
Famiya 887 


al-Farabl, see: Muhammad b. Muhammad 
Farah b. Dunash, see: Simha b. Dunash 
(Abu’l-Surur) Farah b. Isaac 834 
Farah (Surur) b. Sahlan (Nehorai b. 

Nissim’s uncle) 265, 375 
Faraj b. ‘Eli 743, 804 
al-Farama, which is Pelusion 549, 577, 

586, 721, 746 
Farghana 97, 473 
al-Fariql, see: ‘Abd al-Rahlm b. 
Muhammad 

Faris, the south-eastern part of Persia 497, 
702, 740 

Fas 383, 396, 750, 772, 793, 819, 821, 860, 
876, 881 

al-FasI, see: David b. Abraham; Isaac the 
cantor: Isaiah; Joseph b. ‘All ha-Kohen 
Fatik, governor of Tiberias 545 
Fatima, daughter of the Ikhshid 476 
Fajima, daughter of Muhammad 95, 462, 
464, 467 

Farod, Faradhlya, in the Galilee 327 
Farwa b. ‘Amr 22, 31 
Farwa b. Mujahid 189 
Faryab, in Khurasan 502 
al-Faryabl, see: ‘Abdallah b. Muhammad 
502 

(Mubarak al-Dawla) Fath, governor of 
Jerusalem 585, 588, 589 
Fatimids 270, 274, 277, 278, 296, 302, 304, 
305, 306, 307, 329, 331, 357, 367, 370, 
374, 384, 464, 466, Ml, 482, 543-603, 
606, 607, 608, 610, 611, 612, 629, 649, 
698, 713, 718, 722, 726, 746, 762, 
778-783, 796, 801, 809, 812, 822, 855, 
860, 883, 889, 892, 899, 909, 911, 912, 
913, 920, 928, 937, 941, 942, 943, 946 
fay’ 238 

Fayyum (also: PItom) 309, 786, 835, 905, 
922 

Felix, a Jerusalem monk, envoy to 
Charlemagne 396, 681 
figs 337, 345, 381 
Fihl (Pella) 44, 57, 122, 320 
al-Fihrl, see: al-Dahhak b. Qays; 

Muhammad b. al-Walld 
(juni) Filastln 88, 89, 91, 92, 93, 94, 96, 98, 
99, 101, 115, 116, 122, 124, 126, 
128-132, 134, 138, 139, 145, 146, 148, 
149, 152, 153, 154, 155, 179, 184, 187, 
190, 222, 223, 225, 230, 231, 234, 235, 
245, 276, 321, 328, 331, 337, 339, 352, 
367, 387, 388, 390, 392, 393, 394, 406, 
410, 411, 421, 422, 454, 456, 467, 473, 
484, 489, 551, 562, 567, 577, 584, 588, 
590, 591, 594, 638, 702, 707, 710, 783, 
803, 883, 888, 941 


93i 



INDEX 


the Jilioque dispute 681, 689 
Firkovitch, Abraham 289 
(Majd al-dawla) Fitah b. Buye al-Kitaml, 
governor of Tiberias 585, 588 
flax 331, 350, 356-357, 361, 376, 380, 383, 
549, 604, 830 

Fortress of Dan (see also: Baniyas) 328 
Fortress of Haifa 302, 658 
Fortress of Hasor (Caesarea) 330 
Fortress of SlnJm (= Tarabulus, see also: 
Tripoli) 874 

Foulque Nerra, Count of Anjou 723, 724 
France 823, 829 
Franciscus Pipinus 668 
Franks 395, 397, 398, 584, 681, 682, 688, 
695, 715, 724, 727, 761, 777, 901, 911 
Frederick II 678 

Frotmund, French aristocrat 721 

Junduq, inn 282 

junduq in Hebron 314 

Furqan, see: Joshua b. Judah 

Fustat, passim 

Futuh, see: Abu’l-Futuh 

jutuwwa, armed units 478 

Gabbatha 680 
Gader 122 

Galilee 53, 54, 76, 81, 122, 324-329, 342, 
376, 390, 477, 481, 595, 900, 928 
gall-nuts 339, 350, 379, 380, 741 
(Rabban) Gamliel 853 
Garman see: Ibn Garman 
gates, see also under: bab 
Barclay 842, 846 
David 80, 680, 712, 841, 842 
the Eastern 840, 841, 842 
the Golden 841 
Hanna 842 

Herod (= Flower Gate) 678 
Hulda 840, 841, 842, 843, 844 
Isaac 842 

Jayrun, Damascus 80 
Jehoshaphat, see bab al-asbdt 
Jericho 424 

Judah (on the Temple Mount) 842 
Kiponos 844 

the Lions’, see: bab al-asbdt 
Lod 80 

the MaghribTs 842 
Nabulus 839 
the Nea 669 
Nikanor 841, 842 

the Priest’s 818, 840, 841, 842, 844, 846 
the Prophet Muhammad’s 67, 842 
the Sheep, see: bab al-asbdt 
Shushan 841 


Siloam 838, 846, 847 
Solomon’s 841, 842 
of the Song 842 
St Stephen’s, see: bab al-asbdt 
the Water 842 
the Women 842 
Zion 838, 839, 846, 847 
Zuwayla, in al-Qahira 918 
Gaza, Gazans 18, 48, 49. 51, 54, 55, 75, 76, 
83, 113, 121, 122, 276, 309-310, 311, 
337, 392, 409, 536-537, 552, 553, 564, 
577, 591, 595, 605, 624, 651-652, 674, 
703, 708, 721, 801, 835, 907, 928, 929, 
941 

Gennesareth 550 
Genoa 331 

gentile law courts 273-214, 312, 752, 753, 
755, 758, 803, 879 

George, archimandrite of the Monastery of 
St Theodosius 663 

George (who is Egilbaldus), Jerusalem 
monk, envoy of the patriarch to 
Charlemagne 396 

George, a monk from Jerusalem 684 
George, patriarch ofjerusalem 681, 683, 
686, 688 

Georgians 666, 668, 671, 680, 695 
Georgios son of Theodore, a Byzantine 
commander 54, 59 
Georgius of Chozeba 19 
Georgius of Cyprus 672 
Georgius Mtzamindeli, Georgian saint 680 
Germanus, patriarch of Constantinople 672 
Gero, bishop of Cologne 722 
Gerontius, father of a monastery 19 
Gethsemane 92, 666, 667, 669, 680, 704 
(Abu Nasr) Ghalib ha-Kohen b. Moses b. 
Ghalib, the son-in-law of Ephraim b. 
Shemaria 742. 802, 858, 868, 876, 879, 
881, 891, 893 

Ghaliya, »1-Baniyasiyya, daughter of 
AshlTmun al-Dalatl 319, 325, 328 
Ghaliya, daughter of Musafir, Tyre 899 
ghaliya, scents mixed in oil 350 
al-Ghallaq, locksmith, see: Solomon b, 
al-Gballaq 

al-GharabilT, see: Abu Talib 
Gharnata (Granada) 311, 365 
al-ghawr, the Jordan Valley 122, 328, 337, 
349, 929 

Ghawta, in the Damascus region 269, 358 
(Abu Marwan) Ghaylan b, Muslim, 
founder of a sect 98 
al-Ghazali, who is Abu Hamid 

Muhammad b. Muhammad al-TusI 
201 ,'624, 633 


932 



INDEX 


ghazl (spun yarn) 339, 350, 350 
al-Ghazzal, see: ‘Abd al-Wahhab b. 

Husayn 

ghirara, measure of volume 608 
ghitara, a kind of head covering 869 
Ghulayb, see: Moses b. Ghulayb 
Ghulayb ha-Kohen b. Moses (b. Ghulayb) 
368 

Gisla, Charlemagne’s sister 396 
Gispert, a monk of Jerusalem 682 
glass 348, 351 
glue 350, 377 

the Golan 57, 58, 61, 328, 393, 557 
Gontier, abbot of the monastery of St 
Aubin 722 
grapes 337, 385 

the Graptoi (the brothers Theodore and 
Theophanes) 689, 690 
Grave of St Mary 92, 667 
Grave of St Stephen 669 
Grave of Umm al-Khayr, on the Mount of 
Olives 832 

Graves of the patriarchs (see also: Hebron) 
112, 314, 315, 829, 830, 833, 879 
Graves of the prophets 424 
Greece, Greek, 2, 676, 702, 707, 713, 721, 
776 

Gregorius, abbot of a monastery 19 
Gregorius I, Pope 718 
Gunther, bishop of Bamberg 726, 834 
Guriya, one of Mar Zutra’s descendants 
849 

Gush (= Gush Halav) 298, 324, 329, 342, 
344, 376 

al-Habashl, see: Mamtur al-Dimashql 
Hadrak 916 
Hadramawt 183, 406 
Hadrian, Pope 687 

at Haffaz, see: Shemaria ha-Kohen; Abu’l- 
A‘la b. Mevorakh ha-Kohen; 

Shemaria ha-Kohen 
(Abu ‘Umar) Hafs b. Maysara 388 
Haggai ha-Kohen b. Joseph (see also: 

Abraham ha-Kohen b. Haggai; Isaac 
ha-Kohen b. Haggai) 865 
Haifa (see also: Fortress of Haifa; 

Sykamina) 2, 276, 302, 329, 339, 464, 
595, 658, 784, 899, 906, 912, 943, 944 
hajib, manager of the caliph’s court 390 
al-Hajjaj b. Yusuf 57, 96, 121, 126, 137, 

216 

al-Hakam, the Spanish caliph 561 
al-Hakam b, Dib‘an b. Rawh 101, 139 
al-Hakam b. Maymun 345 
al-Hakim, caliph 255, 267, 267, 269, 333, 


334, 364, 367, 560, 561, 563-581, 584, 
589, 667, 670, 699, 700, 701, 710, 712, 
716, 746, 769, 800, 865, 882, 894 
Halfon, Ascalon 914 
Halfon, Fustat 879 

Halfon the elder, Fustat, see: Nethanel 
ha-Levi b. Halfon 

(the son of) Halfon al-Ramli, Caesarea 330, 
747 

Halfon ha-Kohen b. Aaron, Tyre (see also: 

Ghaliya daughter of Musafir) 899 
Halfon (Khalfon) b. Benaya 376 
Halfon ha-Kohen b. Eleazar, Ascalon 305 
Halfon b. Manasseh, scribe of the 
community in Fustat 308 
Halfon b. Jacob b. Mevasser, Fustat (see 
also: Jacob b. Mevasser) 793, 861 
(Ibn Ab! QTda) Halfon b. Moses b. Aaron, 
representative of the merchants in 
Tyre (see also: Dara daughter of 
Solomon, his wife) 348 359, 580 
Halfon b. Nahum, see: Abraham b. 

Nahum 

(Abu Sa‘d) Halfon b. Solomon b. Nathan 
(see also: Solomon b. Nathan) 380, 

398 

Halfon (Khalaf) b. Tha'lab, Tyre 812 
Halfon ha-Levi b. Yefet, Tyre, 

representative of the merchants 812 
halilaj (myrobalan) 346, 353, 379 
Italilaj kahili 355 

hallal, supervisor of ritual slaughtering 805 
Hamadan 504 
Hamah, in Syria 307, 477 
Hamat-Gader (see also: Jadariyya) 296, 

341, 352 

al-Hamadanj, see: ‘Abd al-Samad b. 

Muhammad; Hamza b. Malik; Yazld 
b. Khalid 

(Abu Hamid) Hamdan b. Gharim b. Yanar 
(or Nayar) al-Zandi, Ascalon 526 
Hamid, one of al-Qassam’s men, 

Damascus 558 

Hamid b. al-Hasan al-Bazzar al-Mu‘addal, 
Tiberias 437, 495 

hammam al-fa’r, Fustat (see also: siiq 
hammam al-fa’r) 805 

Hammath and Rakkath (= Tiberias) 285 
Hamza b. Malik al-Hamadanl 88 
the Hanafites 609, 628 
R. Hananel 339, 901 
Hanania, ‘Anan’s brother, exilarch 917 
Hanania, Qayrawan 871 
(Abu’l-Tayyib) Hanania ha-Levi 

(= Hunayn), father of Sitt al-Dar 380, 
891 


933 



INDEX 


Hanania ha-Kohen av-bet-din, b. Joseph 
Gaon 738, 766, 854, 855, 856 
Hanania b. Levi b. Yefet b. ‘All, a Karaite 
925 

the Hanballs 625 

(Ibn Habban) Han! b. Kulthum b. 

‘Abdallah b. Sharlk 190 
Hanina b. Yannai Joseph 821 
Hanokh b. Moses 854 
al-Hanzall, see: ‘Abdallah b. al-Mubarak; 

Muhammad b. Muhammad 
the Haqra 848 

karat al-mashariqa, Jerusalem 848 
al-HarawI, see: Abu Hatim 
ham, silk 355, 901 
al-Harlri, see: Jacob b. Salman 
harts (harisa ), Jewish dish 34 
al-Harith al-Haffar 390 
Harith b. Abl Shamir 23 
Harith b. Khalid al-Azdl 88 
Harith b. Sa'Id (or b. ‘Abd al-Rahman b. 
Sa'Id) 97 

Harith b. ‘Umayr al-Azdl 29 
Harmala, Muhammad’s messenger 36 
Harthama b. A‘yun, governor 394 
Harun (Jews), see: Aaron 
Harun, cadi, Bilbays 315 
(Abu’l Faraj) Harun, grammarian and 
Bible commentator 937, 938, 940 
Harun al-Rashld, caliph 116, 265, 269, 276, 
391, 394, 396, 397, 399, 410, 411, 412, 
418, 678, 709, 941 

Harun b. Khumarawayh b. Ahmad b. 

Tulun 367, 467, 469, 475,'489 
Harun b. Muhammad 451 
Harun b. Sa'Id b. al-Haytham, Eilat 451, 
540 

Harun b. Yahya 455 

(Abu Musa) Harun b. Zayd b. Abi'l-Zarqa 
al-Taghlibl 435 
(the citadel of) al-Hasaml 422 
Hasan, Fustat 763 
Hasan al-‘Aquli, Fustat 764 
(Abu ‘All) Hasan b. ‘Abd al-Samad b. 

Abl’l-Shihna, Ascalon 649 
(Abu ‘All) Hasan al-A‘sam b. Ahmad b. 
Bahram, QarmafI leader 481, 548, 

550, 552, 553 

(Abu Muhammad) Hasan b. ‘All b. ‘Abd 
al-Rahman al-Yazuri, cadi, wazlr (he 
is al-makin ‘umdat amir al-mu’tninin, 
nasir al-din) 360, 598, 599, 779, 889 
(Makin al-dawia) Hasan b. ‘All b. 

Mulham, the governor of Tiberias and 
Acre 600 

Hasan b. ‘Ammar, commander in the 
Fatimid army 563 


(Abu Sa'id al-Masri) Hasan b. Da’ud b. 

Babshad b. Da’ud b. Sulayman 927 
H is.m b. al-Faraj, Gaza 537, 651 
(Abu ‘All Hasan b. Hajjaj b. Ghalib, who 
is Abu ‘All b. Haydara al-Zayyat, 
Tiberias 501 

(Abu’l-Futuh) Hasan b. Ja‘far 577 
Hasan b. Kalev, see: Yefet b. Kalev 
Hasan b. Mu’ammal 828, 890 
Hasan b. Mu’ammala, daughter of Samuel 
b. Manasseh ibn al-Qazzaz 560 
(Abu ‘All) Hasan b. Muhammad b. Abl 
Nu‘aym, the Jerusalem physician 556 
Hasan b. Sa‘dan b. Asbagh 797 
(‘Amid al-dawla Abu Muhammad) Hasan 
b. Salih al-Rudhbadl, wazlr 803 
Hasan ha-Kohen b. Salman al-Dallal 365 
Hasan b, Surur 585 
Hasan b. Tahir b. Husayn, Ramla 787 
Hasan b. Tahir b. Yahya 487 
Hasan b. Tughj, Ikhshldid 477, 836 
Hasan b. ‘Ubaydallah b. Tughj, Ikhshldid, 
governor of Ramla 479, 481, 482, 486, 
544, 545, 456, 556 
Hasan b. Waqi‘, Ramla 425 
Hasana, daughter of Nahum 311 
Hasana, daughter of Sahlan, wife of Hiba 
b. Isra’il, Ramla, Fustat 823, 901 
Hasdai b. Bustanai 852, 885, 926 
hash, compound 590, 835, 864, 925, 936 
Hashim b, ‘Abd Manaf (one of the 

forefathers of Muhammad) 18, 309. 
(Abu Sa‘Id) Hashim b. Marthad (or 
Mazyad), Tiberias 438, 499 
the hashishiyya 328 
Hashmanai 285 

Hasor, Haseriya (= Caesarea) 330, 564, 

’ 607', 747 

Hassan (b. Hamza) b. Malik b. Bahdal, 
leader of the Banu Hamadan 88, 93 
Hassan b. Manasseh, Tiberias 285 
Hassan b. al-Mufarrij b. Daghfal ibn 

al-Jarrah 335, 550, 577, 581, 583, 585, 
586, 587, 588, 592, 597 
Hassan b. Thabit 158 

Hasuv, one of Mar Zutra’s successors 729, 

' 849, 852 

Havlv b. PIpim, masorete 288 
haimrd = the Palestinian yeshiva 733, 770, 
788, 795, 849, 853, 865, 869, 901 
the Hawran 23, 42, 44, 53, 58, 468, 545, 
557 

Haydara ( dhukhayrat al-dawla), governor of 
Damascus (he is Haydara b. al- 
Husayn b. Muflih Abu’l-Karam 
al-Mu’ayyad) 599 


934 



INDEX 


Hayfa’, daughter of Sulayman 914 
Hayy (?) b. Sa’ada 901 
Hayy Gaon b. Sherira 34, 273, 298, 307, 
741, 745, 762-764, 765, 768, 769, 770, 

772, 773, 776, 795, 797, 807, 816, 828, 
854, 864, 868, 871, 896, 897, 901 

Hayyim b. ‘Ammar al-Madinl 377, 809 
Hayyim b. Harun of Sahrajt 814, 896 
Hayyim b. Mu’ammala, descendant of Ibn 
al-Qazzaz 560 

(Abu’l-Faraj) Hayyim he-liaver b. 

Solomon, Ramla, Jerusalem 376, 866, 
881, 890 

al-hazan al-Jushi 324 

Haziyya daughter of Nathan, Tyre (wife of 
Mansur) 298 

Hebron (see also: Graves of the patriarchs) 
54, 70, 75, 109, 112, 114, 201, 276, 

304, 307, 311, 314-315, 336, 374, 377, 
414, 469, 504, 541, 595, 609, 829, 833, 
835, 879, 899, 941, 944 
Hedweta, see: Yeshu’a b. Sabgha b. 
Hedweta 

Helena, Constantine’s mother 81, 107, 

665, 666, 670, 700 

the hmotikon, decree on the unity of the 
Church 661 

heqdesh (see also: t vaqf) 307, 352, 385, 396, 

569, 572, 576, 589, 599, 699, 717, 728, 
746, 755, 794, 804, 814, 815, 816, 818, 
851, 873, 877, 882, 883, 890, 899, 908, 
916, 935 

Heraclius, emperor 5, 9, 10, 18, 26, 29, 34, 
35, 44, 48, 54, 59, 60, 62, 65, 72, 87, 

570, 661 

Hermann of Reichenau 722 
(Abu Nasr Hesed (Fadl) b. Yashar (Sahl) 
al-Tustari 285, 360, 364, 380, 573, 

590, 598, 767, 773, 780, 815, 819, 857, 
866, 871, 879, 880, 882, 886, 924, 939, 
940, 947 
Heshbon 663 

Hezekiah b. David b. Boaz, a Karaite nasi 
289 

Hezekiah b. David b. Hezekiah b. Judah, 
exilarch 763, 765, 773, 774, 784, 797, 
798, 879, 885, 896, 926 
Hezekiah b. Judah b. David b. Zakkai 773 
Hezekiah the nasi b. Solomon b. David 

773, 783, 883, 927 
(Abu’l-Faraj) Hiba, Fustat 939 

Hiba al-Basrf b. Isra’il al-A‘raj, Ramla (see 
also: Hasana, daughter of Sahlan) 356, 
823, 901 

Hiba b. Salmun, see: Moses b. Hiba b. 
Salmun al-Sefati 


Hiba b. Sulayman, Jerusalem 505 
Hibat Allah, see: Nethanel b. Yeshu’a 
hibr, ink 342 

Hidda, mother of Gero, bishop of Cologne 
722 

Hieronymus 661 

Hijaz 36, 49, 64, 88, 93, 94, 105, 122, 123, 
162, 216, 400, 410, 559, 566, 568, 583, 
592, 602 

al-Hijaziyya, see: b. al-Hijaziyya 
Hilda, countess of Swabia 722 
Hildegarde, wife of Foulque Nerra 724 
Hillel, known as Qitos, see: Husayn b. 
Hillel 

Hillel ha-Levi, Ascalon 307 

Hillel b. ‘Eli, Fustat 307, 903, 904, 905, 

906, 911, 912, 945 
Hillel b. al-Jastis (see also: Jasus al- 
Maghribi) 912 

Hillel b. Manasseh, Fustat 879 
Hillel b. Nissim, Tiberias 285, 335 
Hillel al-Ramli b. Qartaway see: Barakat 
b. Hillel 

(Abu’l-Najm Hilal) Hillel b, Sahl al- 
Sahrajti, Fustat 804 

(Abu’l-Faraj) Hillel he-haver b. Yeshu’a the 
cantor al-Jubarl, Tiberias 255, 296, 

325, 359, 591, 803, 807 
Hims 34, 54, 58, 60, 61, 62, 75, 92, 99, 

117, 129, 141, 161, 183, 187, 225, 415, 
492, 545, 550, 559, 562, 686, 705 
Himyar 5, 81, 131, 160, 168, 192 
al-Himyari, see: Ayyub b. Suwayd; 

Tubay’ b. ‘Amir 
Hira in Iraq 511, 53, 679 
Hisham b. ‘Abd al-Malik, caliph 98, 117, 
153, 686 
Hisma 21, 32 

Hisn (fortress of) Nu’man, in Trans-Jordan 
'603 

Hit, on the Euphrates 443, 468 
Hittln 645 

(Abu Muhammad) Hiyaj b. ‘Ubayd b. 

al-Husavn. Hittln 645 
hogegim = pilgrims 828, 834 
the Holy Cross 9, 18, 69, 82, 352, 662, 

665, 689, 700 

the Holy Sepulchre 8, 112, 396, 397, 483, 

666, 669, 689, 701, 707, 710, 716 
honey 337 

Honorius, Pope 9 

Hosha’na rabba (the seventh day of the 
feast of Tabernacles) 784, 840 
the Hospitallers 718 
House of the forest of Lebanon 87 
Hubaysh b. Dalaja (or Dulja) al-Qayni 88, 
89, 149 


935 



INDEX 


Hudaybiyya 9, 27 

Hugo, abbot of the Benedictine monastery 
667 

Hugo Capet 677 
Hugo of Tuscany 717, 718 
Hujr b. ‘Adi 266 

al-Hulaybl, see: b. al-Hulaybl; Khalaf b. 
Joseph 

Hulda, of Acre 301 
Hulwan 728 

(Abu Sinan) Humayd b. ‘Uqba 187 
Humaydan ibn Hirash, al-‘Aziz’s emissary 
to Damascus 558 

Humayma, in the region of Moab 95, 100 
Hunayn ibn Ishaq 286 
Hungary 717, 721, 724 
Hurayth b. Zayd, Muhammad’s 
messenger 36 
Husam al-dawla 889 

(Abu ‘All) al-Husayn b. Ahmad b. Rustum 
al-Madhara’I 233 

Husayn b. ‘All ibn Abl Talib 93, 304, 462 
(Abu’l-Qasim) Husayn b. ‘All, ‘the 
MaghribI wazlr’ 557, 577 
Husayn b. ‘All al-Naysaburl, Gaza 537 
Husayn b. ‘Allan 871 
Husayn b. Hamdan b. Hamdun, Abbasid 
army commander 468 
Husayn b. Hillel, known by the name 
Qitos, Baniyas 328 
Husayn b. Jamil, governor 410 
Husayn b. Jawhar 561 
(Abu’l-Harr) Husayn b. Malik ibn al- 
Khushkhash, governor 128 
Husayn b. Moses SafaqusI, see: Solomon 
b. Moses 

Husayn b. Muhammad b. ‘All al- 
Madhara’I 475 

(Abu ‘All) Husayn b. Muslim 901 
(Abu ‘Abdallah) Husayn b. Nasir al-Dawla 
b. ‘Abdallah, of the Hamdanids 565 
Husayn b. Nimr 223 
Husayn b. Rustum, Eilat 446 
(Abu Nasr) Husayn b. Tughj, Ikhshldid 
476 

(Abu ‘All) Husayn b. Yunus, merchants’ 
representative in Ramla (see also: Abu 
‘All al-wakil) 359 
Husayn b. Zahir al-Wazzan 569 
Hushiel b. Elhanan 790, 871, 872, 879 
Husn 932 

Husn, daughter of Joseph, Ramla 772 
Husn, daughter ofManasseh b. Abraham 
al-Qazzaz 560 

Iberians 680 

1'billln in the Galilee 329 


Ibn Abl ‘Aqll see: ‘Abdallah b. ‘All 
Ibn Abl Hatim al-RazI, the writer 430, 

439, 440 

Ibn Abl Saj, a Turkish commander 461 
Ibn Abl Sarh, who is Abu Yahya ‘Abdallah 
b. Sa’Id 179 

Ibn AbI’I-‘Ud, Manasseh ibn al-Qazzaz’s 
supporter, Damascus 562 
Ibn Akhl’l-Kuways, a Damascene perfume 
merchant 562 

Ibn ‘Allun, see: Isaac b. Aaron 
Ibn ‘Allush al-Jazzar 377 
Ibn al-‘ArabI, Abu Bakr Muhammad b. 
‘Abdallah (see also: in the 
bibliographical index: Ibn al-‘ArabI) 
276, 609, 624, 629, 632, 633, 931, 940 
Ibn ‘Awkal, see: Joseph b. Jacob 
Ibn al-Ba‘ba‘ 809 
Ibn al-Baladl, Ramla 549 
Ibn Bayhas, leader of a rebellion 414 
Ibn Bitrlq, see al-Bitrlq b. Naka 
Ibn Firasa, rebel 941 
Ibn Firasa, persecutor of the Samaritans 
411 

Ibn Garman 856 

Ibn Hamdun, writer, author of the 
Tadhkira 746 

Ibn al-Harith, manager of the estates of the 
Ikhshldids in Palestine 233, 491 
Ibn Hayyus, poet 584 
Ibn Hibban, see: Hani b. Kulthum 
Ibn al-Himara, Alptakln’s wazlr 553 
Ibn Hinzaba, see: Ja‘far b. Fadl 
Ibn Imam, Damascene paper-maker 344 
Ibn Ishaq, the chronicler 63, 65, 72 
Ibn ai-Jalla’, see: Ahmad b. Yahya 
Ibn Ka’s, see: Muhammad b. al-Hasan 
Ibn Kashkil, see: Moses b. Joseph 
Ibn al-Kazirunl, see: Siba‘ b. Mufarrij 
Ibn Maja, the traditionist 442 
Ibn Malik, governor 479, 488 
Ibn Manda 389 
Ibn al-Mu‘akkar 756 
Ibn Muqla, wazlr 475 
(Abu’ 1-’Abbas) ibn al-Muwaffaq, see: 
al-Mu‘tadid 

Ibn Nastas, a Christian physician 894 
Ibn Nubata, preacher in Ramla 577 
Ibn al-Qaysaranl, see: Muhammad b. 

Nasr; Muhammad b. Tahir 
Ibn al-Qazzaz, see: Manasseh b. Abraham; 

Solomon b. ‘Adi b. Manasseh 
Ibn Ra’iq, commander of the Abbasid 
army 475, 476, 487, 488 
Ibn Sahlan, see: Farah b. Sahlan 
Ibn Salmon al-katib 803 


936 



INDEX 


Ibn Shlrln 569 

Ihn Shuway 1 , see: Shuway 1 

Ibn Sirhan 577 

Ibn al-Sufl, Jerusalem, see: Abu ‘All 
al-Wakll 

Ibn al-Taras and his wife, leaders of the 
Karaites in Castile 940 
Ibn al-Tayyib, Nestorian priest 679 
Ibn al-Tuffahl 345 

Ibn ukht Sham'an, see: Mevorakh b. 
Husayn 

Ibn al-Ukhuwwa, see: ‘All b, ‘Abd al- 
‘Azlz 

Ibn al-‘Usfura (see also: Judah ibn al- 
“Usfura; b. al-Sippori) 598 
Ibn al-Wasitl (see also: Muhammad b. 

‘Abd ai-‘Aziz) 361 
Ibrahim (Jews), see: Abraham 
Ibrahim Yana], brother of Tughril Beg 598 
Ibrahim al-Aghlab, governor 396 
(Abu Ishaq) Ibrahim b. Adham 389 
Ibrahim b. Ahmad al-Khalanjl 112 
Ibrahim b. Faraj Allah b. ‘Abd ai-Kafl, 
dayyan of the Karaites in MaqrizI’s 
time 918 

(Abu Mahmud) Ibrahim b. Ja‘far b. al- 
Fallah, Fatimid commander 550, 555, 
558 

Ibrahim b. al-Khufyanl, Gaza 929 
Ibrahim b. Khumarawayh, The Tulunid 
469 

(Abu Sufyan) Ibrahim b. Mu'awiya, 
Caesarea 538 

(Abu Tahir) Ibrahim b. Muhammad b. 

‘Abd al-Razzaq, Haifa 658 
Ibrahim b. Muhammad al-Mahdl, 
governor 276, 391, 411 
Ibrahim b. al-Mutawakki] (al-Mu’ayyad) 
420 

Ibrahim b. Salih, governor 393 
(Abu Shanbal) Ibrahim b. Shamir b. 
Yaqzan al-‘UqaylI (Shamir is: Abu 
‘Abla), a poet 166 
Ibrahim b. al-Walld, caliph 99 
Ibrahim b. al-Walld b. Salima, Tiberias 
436 

(Abu Ishaq) Ibrahim b. Yahya b. 

‘Uthman, Gaza 18, 652 
ibrisam, silk 358, 360 

Iconoclasts 87, 97, 672, 685, 687, 689, 690, 
706 

Iconium in Asia Minor 571 706 
‘id al-salib, feast of the Cross 352, 700 
‘id al-sha'anin 700 
Idhra'at 352 

Idris b. Abl Khawla al-Antakl 423 


(Abu’l-Hasan) Idris b. Hamza b. ‘All, 
leader of the Shaffites in Ramla 624, 
642 

The Idrlsids 464 

‘lfra, river in south Palestine 22 

al-Ifianj, the Franks; the Crusaders 565, 

946 

Ifrlqiya (the region of Tunis) 179, 370, 

394, 561, 739, 821 
Iftikhar al-dawla 943, 947 
Ignatius, patriarch of Constantinople 694 
al-Tjll, see: Masbah b. Hilqam 
Ijnadayn 54, 55, 57, 61, 93 
The Ikhshldids 233, 367, 467, 473-479, 
482-488, 491, 544, 545, 546, 548, 550, 
552, 559, 562, 564, 696, 785, 836 
‘Ikrima b. Abljahl 44 
Iksal 477 

ilghazl, son of Artuq 606, 607, 609 
Iliya (which is: Jerusalem) 65, 68, 114, 120, 
121, 125, 417, 602 
Imra’l-Qays 153 
‘Imran, see also: ‘Amram 
‘Imran, Fustat, Ramla 866 
‘Imran b. Bashir b. Nahum, Alexandria 
(brother of Ezra) 903 
‘Imran the cantor b. al-jurawl 821 
‘Imran b. Levi ha-Kohen 929 
‘Imran b. Thabit 99 

‘Imwas (Emmaus, Nikopolis) 55, 60, 74, 
88, 122, 127, 225, 231, 311 
India 871 

indigo 311, 337, 345, 349, 589, 879, 887 

informers 782 

Ingulph 726 

Innocent III, Pope 269 

interruption of prayers 868 

(Razln, or: Zayn al-dawla) Intisar ibn 

Yahya al-Masmudl, Fatimid governor 
603, 605 

Ioannicos, patriarch of Jerusalem 683, 699 

iqlim — sub-district 122, 123 

iqta‘ 71, 567, 585, 592 

‘Ir ha-qodesh (‘the Holy City’) 289, 828, 

835, 936 

Iraq (see also: Babylonia) 1, 53, 92, 93, 94, 
98, 118, 121, 123, 128, 223, 227, 255, 
266, 298, 342, 383, 410, 450, 463, 475, 
481, 488, 509, 522, 549, 553, 577, 596, 
611, 698, 702, 728, 735, 740, 762, 764, 
767, 771, 772, 810, 887, 925, 935 
Irbid 115, 116, 705 
‘Irqa 71 

‘Isa al-Nushrl, commander of Fustat 469 
‘Isa b. al-‘AkkI, Abbasid commander 394 
(Abu’l-Qasam) ‘Isa b. ‘All al-'Umari, 
Ramla 639 


937 



INDEX 


(Abu ‘Umayr) ‘Isa b. Muhammad b. Ishaq 
(Ibn al-Nahhas) 429 

‘Isa b. Nestorius, Fatimid wazlr 560, 562, 
563, 564 

‘Isa b. al-Shaykh b. al-Sulayl, governor 
422 

(Abu Sinan) ‘Isa b. Sinan (al-Qasamill, 
al-Hanafl) 197 

(AbuT-Husayn) ‘Isa b. ‘Ubaydallah, Ramla 
487 

(Abu Sahl) ‘Isa b. Yahya al-MasIhl, 
Christian ofjurjan 701 
Isaac (probably Isaac b. ‘Eli) 344 
Isaac, av bet din of the Palestinian yeshiva 
787 

Isaac al-Andalusi 369 

Isaac, envoy of Charlemagne 396 

Isaac al-FasI, the cantor (see also: Daniel b. 

Isaac the cantor) 745, 775, 821 
Isaac, father of Baruch of Byzantium 823 
Isaac, father of Mevorakh, see: Mevorakh 
b. Isaac 

Isaac ha-mahavil (ha-mavhil or ha-Yishaql) 
author of‘oldest collection of Bible 
difficulties’ (?) 745 

Isaac from Wadl’l-Qura 34, 318, 770 
Isaac Gaon 850, 852 
Isaac of Nisibis 679 
Isaac ‘the third’ 854 
Isaac ‘the third’ b. Abraham Gaon 301 
(Abu Sa‘d) Isaac (Ishaq) b. Aaron (Khalaf) 
b. ‘Alton, Egyptian secretary (see also: 
Khalaf b. ‘Allfln) 270, 600, 779 
Isaac b. Abraham, Ramla 779 
Isaac b. Abraham, Tiberias 285 
Isaac ha-Kohen b. Abraham b, Furat, rosh 
ha-qehillot (‘head of the communities’) 
762, 779, 861, 863, 898 
Isaac b. Daniel (= Isaac the cantor?) author 
of‘the oldest collection of Bible 
difficulties’ (?) 745 

Isaac b. David b. Sughmar, Fustat 338, 

353, 358 

Isaac b. Dorbelo 736 

(Abu Ya'qub) Isaac b. ‘Eli 376 

Isaac b. Fadanj 827 

Isaac ha-Kohen b. Haggai (brother of 
Abraham; see also: Haggai ha-Kohen 
b. Joseph) 821 

Isaac ha-melammed b. Hayyim Nufusi 913 
Isaac b, Jacob he-haver b. Joseph, Aleppo- 
Fustat311, 364, 366, 742 
Isaac b. Joseph, a Karaite, Warjlan 827 
Isaac b. Mevasser, Ramla 753, 877 
Isaac b. Musa b. Eliezer 561 
Isaac b. Samuel the Spaniard 301, 315, 910 


Isaac b, Solomon Isra’IlI 293 
Isaac he-hdver b. Solomon he-haver b. Meir 
Gaon (?), Acre (see also: Moses ha- 
sofer b. Isaac he-liaver) 301, 851, 899 
Isaiah al-FasI 756 
Isaiah Nufusi 883 

Isaiah b. Levi b. Yefet b. ‘All, a Karaite 
925 

Isfahan 339, 492, 513, 603, 740, 918 
Ishaq (Jews), see also: Isaac 
Ishaq b. Ibrahim b. Salih 393 
(Abu Ya'qub) Ishaq b. Isma‘11 b. ‘Abd 
al-A‘Ia b. ‘Abd al-Hamld 447 
Ishaq b. Muhamshadh 424 
(Abu Ibrahim) Ishaq b. al-Sahl 835 
Ishmael b. ‘Adi b. Manasseh b. Al-Qazzaz 

560 

Ishmael b. Musa b, Eliezer 561 
Isma‘11, leader of the Qarmatls 468 
Isma‘Il al-‘AzazI al-Halabl 301 
Isma‘11, David b. Hayyun’s nephew (a 
Karaite) 828 

Isma‘11 b. ‘Abd al-Wahid al-Raba‘1 al- 
Maqdisl, Ramla 521 
(Abu Nasr) Isma‘11 b. ‘Abdallah al- 
MarwazI 422 

Isma‘11 b. Barhun al-Tahirtl 816 
Isma‘11 b. Farah 360, 384 
(Abu SaTd) Isma‘11 b. Hamdawayh 431 
Isma‘11 b. Husayn al-Bayhaql 344 
Isma‘11 b. Isaac al-Andalusi 301, 358, 360, 
361, 366, 376, 382, 898 
IsmaTi b. Ja'far al-Sadiq 462 
(Abu Muhammad) Isma‘11 b. Raja’ b. 

SaTd, Ascalon 648 

Isma‘1] (Samuel) b. Salih (Fadl’s brother) 

561 

IsmaTlIs 328, 462-464, 547, 569, 573, 920, 
921 

al-isra’, night journey of the Prophet 109, 
112, 114 

Israel b. Jacob al-Tustari, see: Joseph b. 

Israel; Saadia b. Israel 
Israel b. Nathan (= Ibn Sahlun) 257, 298, 
324, 336, 338, 342, 343, 344, 345, 352, 
354, 355, 360, 364, 369, 371, 372, 373, 
374, 375, 376, 378, 379, 380, 381, 382, 
384, 385, 596, 700, 821, 823, 829, 832, 
829, 832, 869, 885, 887, 890, 891, 892, 
896, 897 

Israel ha-Kohen b. Samuel Gaon b. Hofni 
868, 887 

Israel b. Simha b. Saadia b. Ephraim, 

Basra 289, 927 

istikhraj (collection, income) 246 
Italy 3, 561, 718, 721, 723, 741, 77 6, 818, 
828, 835, 937, 943 


938 



INDEX 


al-ltrabulusl, see: Jacob b. Joseph b. 

Isma'il; Khalaf b. Abraham b. Khalil 
Iyad b. Nizar 453 

Jabala b. al-Ayham, chief of the Banu 
Ghassan 23, 59, 140, 148 
al-Jabban, see: Jacob b. al-Jabban 
Jabiya 61, 63, 64, 65, 66, 68, 80 
Jabur, Ramla 282 
Jacob, see also: Ya'qub; ‘Aqbun 
Jacob ha-hogeg 829 
Jacob ha-mumhe, Tiberias -Acre 301 
Jacob, a Karaite ofjerusalem 931 
Jacob, of Acre 52 

Jacob he-haver, see: Moses he-haver b. 

Jacob; Nissim al-tnu'allitn b. Jacob 
Jacob of Edessa 80 
Jacob Skandarl 238 
Jacob b. Abaye, one of Mar Zutra’s 
descendants (?) 849 

Jacob b. ‘Amram, Nagid of Qayrawan 
809, 865, 871, 876, 879, 881, 882, 933 
Jacob he-haver b. Ayyub, Acre 301 
Jacob b. Ephraim 740 
Jacob b. Isaac b. Musa b. Eliezer 561 
Jacob b. al-Jabban (Baniyas) 328 
Jacob b. Joseph ha-Bavli 756 
(Abu Yusuf) Jacob b, Joseph b, Isma‘11 

al-AndalusI (see also: Judah b. Isma‘11; 
Umm Abu Yusuf) 258, 260, 337, 340, 
346, 350, 361, 363, 372, 378, 379 
Jacob he-haver b. Joseph, Aleppo, 

apparently identical with the previous 
one (see also: Isaac b. Jacob) 300, 364, 
773 

Jacob ha-me'utad b. Joseph ‘the candidate’ 
(see also the previous one) 580, 742, 
754, 823, 844 

Jacob b. Joseph b. Isma‘U al ItrabulusI 258, 
350, 361, 380 

Jacob b. Mevasser, Fustat (see: Abraham b. 
Mevasser; Halfon b. Jacob) 793, 861, 
868 

Jacob b. Mordecai, gaon of Sura 736 
Jacob rosh kalla b. Nissim, Qayrawan 293, 
741, 790 

Jacob b. Reuven 932 
Jacob b. Salman al-Harlrl 330, 331, 336, 
337, 350, 361, 381 
Jacob b. Samuel 125, 263. 824, 924 
Jacob b. Samuel al-AndalusI 331, 339, 345, 
350, 364, 379, 818 

the Jacobite Church in Jerusalem 608 
Jacobites (Ya'qubls) 570, 608, 661, 668, 
676-678, 839 

Ja'far, governor of Samaria (?) 941 


Ja'far b. Abl Sa‘id, Qarmatl leader 553 
Ja‘far b. Abl Talib (brother of‘All) 29 
(Abu’ 1-Fadl) Ja’far b. Fadl b. Ja‘far ibn 
Furat (Ibn Hinzaba) 486, 544, 560 
Ja'far b. al-Fallah, Fatimid commander 
545, 547, 548 

Ja'far b. Muhammad al-Naysaburi, 
Jerusalem 618 

Ja'far b. Na‘im, amir of Tiberias 468 
Ja‘far b. Yahya b. Khalid al-Barmaki 394, 
941 

Jaffa 55, 116, 117, 122, 330, 331, 332, 345, 
459, 522, 542, 548, 585, 603, 604, 605, 
609, 663, 721, 726, 787, 876, 901, 914 
jahbadh 339, 405, 481 
(wadi) Jahnam (see also: Kidron Valley) 
847 

jdliya (= the exiles, poll tax, jizya) 242, 

245, 262, 761 

(Abu ‘All) Jamil b. Yusuf b. Isma‘11 al- 
Mardanl, Baniyas 659 
al-Jandanlnl, see: al-Qasim b. Muzahim 
al-Ja‘rana 109 
Jarash 54, 57, 320 
Jarba 36, 39 

al-Jarjara’I see: ‘All b. Ahmad 
Jasus al-Maghribl (see also: Hillel b. al- 
Jasus) 862 

Jawbar, supreme Fatimid commander 548, 
552, 553, 558,561, 860 
Jawhar al-Madanl, Fatimid governor in 
Acre 603 

Jawhar b. Hisham al-Qurashl 303 
Jaysh b. Samsama, Fatimid commander 
550, 558j 565, 566 
al-Jazflnl, see: Yefet b. ‘Amram 
al-jazlra (northern Iraq) 702, 740 
Jebusites 606 

Jehoshaphat street, Jerusalem 678, 839 
Jehoshaphat b. Daniel b. Azariah 886 
Jehoshaphat, nasi and gaon b. Josiah 773, 
852, 885, 919, 920, 926, 927 
Jehoshaphat’s tower, see: Absalom’s 
Monument 

Jekuthiel b. Moses b. Jekuthiel 752 
Jericho 21, 92, 113, 117, 122, 295, 311, 

337, 349, 411, 590, 595, 687, 843, 921, 
941 

Jerusalem (see also: Iliya, Bet ha-miqdash, 
‘ir ha-qodesh, al-Quds) 1, 6, 7, 8, 10, 
18, 21, 56, 60, 61, 65-69, 74, 80, 
81-87, 88, 89, 92, 97, 98, 102, 103- 
112, 114, 115, 116, 120, 121, 122, 125, 
127, 130, 133, 141-144, 153, 156-161, 
163-166, 185-186, 188, 191, 194, 197, 
201, 228, 229, 236, 238, 246-254, 256, 
257, 258, 260, 261, 262, 269, 274, 


939 



INDEX 


Jerusalem— (cont.) 

275-281, 283, 289, 294, 296, 298, 307, 
311, 313, 315, 317, 319, 324, 330, 331, 
336, 338, 339, 340, 342, 345, 347, 350, 
352, 353, 354, 355, 358, 361, 362, 363, 
364, 365, 366, 369, 371, 372, 374, 375, 
376, 377, 378, 379, 380, 381, 382, 383, 
384, 385, 389, 396-398, 405, 409, 414, 
416, 417-419, 423-424, 458, 462, 464, 
465, 470, 481, 482, 483, 484, 487, 492, 
502-508, 511, 545, 550, 551, 553, 561, 
569, 570, 572, 575, 576, 578, 579, 584, 
586, 587, 588, 589, 590, 591, 594, 595, 
596, 597, 598, 600, 601, 602, 603, 604, 
605, 606, 607, 608, 609, 614-634, 
661-671, 675, 676, 677, 678, 679, 680, 
681, 682, 683-699, 700, 701, 702, 704, 
706, 707, 708, 710, 712, 714, 715, 716, 
718, 719-727, 728, 729, 735, 738, 747, 
748, 752, 753, 754, 756, 757, 758, 760, 
762, 768, 774, 775, 776, 777, 778, 779, 
780, 781, 783, 785, 790, 793, 794, 795, 
796, 800, 805, 806, 810, 811, 812-818, 
819, 820, 821, 822, 824, 826, 827, 828, 
829, 830, 831, 832. 835-837, 838-848, 
849, 852, 854, 857, 860, 862, 863, 864, 
865, 866, 872, 873, 874, 875, 876, 877, 
878, 880, 881, 886, 887, 888, 889, 890, 

892, 894, 896, 897, 898, 899, 900, 901, 
902, 910, 911, 917, 921, 922, 923, 925, 
926, 927, 929, 930, 931, 932, 933, 934, 
935, 936, 937, 938, 939, 940, 941, 942, 
943, 944, 945, 946, 947, 948, 950 

Jerusalemites (see also: al-maqadisa) 248, 
253, 283, 285, 364, 378, 383, 589, 750, 
751, 754, 760, 762-772, 774, 779, 783, 
793, 796, 799, 800, 803, 804, 805, 808, 
812, 814, 856, 868, 879, 881, 883, 886, 

893, 897, 945 

Jethro, Moses’ father-in-law 21, 76 
jewels 354, 376 

the Jewish market, Jerusalem (see also: 
majlis suq al-yahiid; siiq al-yahud) 352, 
783, 838 

the Jewish market, Ramla 352 
the ‘Jewish quarter’ in Crusaders’ times 
(Juiverie) 678 

Jibrll b. ‘Ubaydallah b. Bukhtlshu", a 

Christian physician from Baghdad 720 
Jifar, northern coast of Sinai 122, 577, 605 
jisr al-ma 'drij 372 
al-JIza, in Egypt 472 

jizya 23, 29, 53, 68, 69, 236, 238, 241, 242, 
245, 256, 247, 256, 262, 317, 391, 591, 
702, 704 

John, abbot of the monastery of Mar Saba 
663, 672 


John, Armenian physician, Jerusalem 680 
John, bishop of‘Amman 663 
John, bishop of Jerusalem (389-415) 661 
John of Caria, a monk of Jerusalem 716 
John of Damascus 672, 690 
John the Generous 718 
John, a monk of Mar Saba 681 
John the synkellos 687, 696 
John III, patriarch of Antioch 680 
John, patriarch ofjerusalem, apocryphal 
personality 398 

John V, patriarch ofjerusalem 683, 685 
John VI, patriarch ofjerusalem 683, 691 
John VII, patriarch ofjerusalem (Yuhanna 
b. Jaml') 485, 569, 571, 683, 697 
John VIII, Pope 682, 695 
John XV, Pope 699 
John Phocas 673 

John Tzimisces, emperor 550, 561 
John of Wurzburg 668 
Jonah b. Judah the Spaniard 813 
Jonas, father of the Graptoi brothers 689 
the Jordan 49, 50, 57, 102, 119, 592, 673, 
675, 680 

the Jordan Valley, see al-ghawr 
Joseph 900 
Joseph, Ascalon 914 
Joseph the cantor, al-Baradani 298 
Joseph, a Jew from Caesarea 72 
Joseph ha-Kohen, gaon 850 
Joseph ha-Kohen, dayyan of Alexandria 
(father of Yeshu'a he-haver) 249, 746, 
751, 860 

Joseph ahuv ha-yesluvd (‘the beloved of the 
Yeshiva’), Caesarea 330 
Joseph II, patriarch ofjerusalem 683, 698 
(Abu Ya'qub) Joseph the scribe, son-in- 
law of Ephraim b. Shemaria 
(probably: Joseph b. Obadiah) 301, 
802 

Joseph b. Aaron, king of the Khazars 735, 
738 

Joseph b. Abraham ha-gizbar, Aleppo 255 
(Abu Ya'qub) Joseph ha-Kohen b. 

Abraham al-BasIr, Karaite scholar 
938, 940 

Joseph the judge b. Abraham, Fustat 946 
Joseph b. ‘All Kohen Fast, 311, 337, 346, 
355, 360, 366, 371, 377, 381, 385, 743, 
820 

Joseph b, ‘Amram the judge, father-in-law 
of Sahlan b. Abraham 807 
Joseph b. Asad, Tiberias 285, 364 
Joseph b. Azariah 358 
Joseph b. Bakhtawayh, Karaite 
commentator 925, 936 
Joseph b. Berekhia, Qayrawan 741, 762, 
816 


940 



INDEX 


Joseph b. Dasi, governor of Palestine (?) 
941 

(AbCi’l-'Ala) Joseph b. David b. Sha'ya 
360, 364 

Joseph he-haver b. Eleazar, Acre 301 
Joseph ha-Kohen b. Eleazar 307 
Joseph b, Eleazar al-Hariri, Tinnls 906 
Joseph ha-Kohen Gaon b. ‘Ezrun 850, 852, 
853, 854 

Joseph b. Hiyya, the scribe 776 
(Rav) Joseph b. Hiyya, Pumbedita 881 
Joseph b. Ibrahim al-Nakhuda (‘ship 
captain’), a Karaite, see: Ezra b. 

Joseph 

Joseph b. Isaac ibn Abltur 854 
Joseph b. Isma‘11 al-ltrabulusl, see: Jacob b. 
Joseph 

Joseph b, Israel al-Tustari (al-Dustari) 274, 
803, 932 

Joseph b. Jacob, Fustat 894 
Joseph ha-Kohen b. Jacob, Tyre 299-300 
Joseph b. Jacob ha-Ma‘aravI (the Maghribi) 
book copyist 342 

Joseph b. Jacob ibn ‘Awkal 762, 770, 812, 
816, 835, 856, 857, 860 
Joseph b. Jacob b. Joseph ha-mumhe ha- 
hevroni b. Saadia 315 
Joseph b. Kulayb, one of Nathan b. 
Abraham’s supporters, Ramla 328, 

111 , 877 

Joseph b. Manasseh, Ascalon 306, 380, 609 
Joseph b. Mansur 823 
Joseph b. Mawhub b. Faraj 753 
Joseph ha-Kohen av-bet-din b. Menahem 
head of the yeshiva 853, 854, 856 
Joseph b. Moses 909 
(Abu Sa'Id) Joseph b. Moses b. Barhun 
al-Tahim 609, 734, 864 
Joseph b. Nahum al-Baradanl 298, 339, 

350, 379,' 818 

Joseph ibn Noah, Jerusalem 925, 938, 940 
Joseph b. al-NufusI, a Karaite, Fustat 883 
Joseph b. Nun, apocryphal Jewish leader, 
Jerusalem 69 

Joseph b. Obadiah, Fustat 802 
Joseph ha-Levi b. Saadia, Tyre 274 
(Abu Sahl) Joseph b. Sahl al-Baradanl 298, 
324, 337, 342, 346, 358, 359, 364, 376 
Joseph b. Samuel the Nagid ibn Naghrila 
773, 881, 892 

Joseph b. Shemaria of Barqa, Jerusalem 
758 

Joseph b. al-SijilmassI, Ramla 771, 796, 

853, 863, 865 

Joseph ha-Kohen b. Solomon Gaon 248, 
254, 340, 378, 383, 591, 596, 750, 752, 


759, 780, 783, 784, 790, 792, 833, 845, 
858, 859, 862, 863, 864, 865, 869, 873, 

874, 875, 881, 883, 884, 886, 889, 890, 
891, 892, 894, 891, 937 

Joseph b. Sudayq, see: ‘A’isha daughter of 
Joseph 

Joseph b. Yahya 301 

Joseph ha-hazan b. Yefet ha-melammed 813 
Joseph b. Yeshu‘a al-TarabulusI 346, 364, 
381 

Joseph ha-Kohen Gaon b. Yohai 850, 851 

Joshua 823 

Joshua al-Halabl 854 

Joshua ha-Kohen b. ‘All b, Zita, a Karaite, 
Jerusalem 925 

Joshua he-haver ha-me'ulle b. Dosa al- 

Ladhiql (see also: Dosa b. Joshua, his 
father) 750, 895, 891 
Joshua he-haver b. ‘Eli he-haver, Ramla, 
Caesarea 330, 342, 607, 609, 857, 890, 
913 

(Abu’l-Surur YamanI) Joshua b. Nathan 
al-AndalusI 311, 365, 750, 753, 879 
Josiah av bet dm (ca. 1000), see: Elijah b. 
Aaron b. Josiah; Josiah b. Aaron b. 
Josiah 

Josiah Gaon b. Aaron 253, 274, 312, 342, 
359, 368, 369, 575, 580, 589, 744, 
746,758, 762, 774, 778, 782, 790, 793, 
795, 797, 798, 799, 801, 803, 804, 814, 
817, 818, 831, 853, 854, 855-858, 861, 

875, 879, 899, 932 

Josiah b. Aaron b. Josiah Gaon (see also: 

Josiah Abu’l-Hasan) 342, 857, 865 
Josiah he-haver b. Aaron b. Josiah av. Acre 
301, 899, 949 

Josiah av-bet-din, b. Abraham Gaon 301, 

854 

(Abu Sa‘d) Josiah ha-Kohen b. Azariah 
Gaon, son of Daniel b. Azariah’s sister 
887, 892, 896, 904, 912 
Josiah b. Boaz b. Jehoshaphat, Karaite 
exilarch 926 

Josiah b. David b. Boaz, Karaite exilarch 
289 

Josiah ha-Kohen b. Moses b. Ghalib 
(= Ghulayb), Hebron 315 
Josiah b. Shemaiah he-haver 855 
(Abu’l-Hasan) Josiah b. Solomon b. David 
b. Boaz, Karaite nasi 783, 866, 927 
Josiah b. Yeshu'a b. Nathan, Gaza 309, 564 
Josiah (Hasan) b. Zakkai (David b. 

Zakkai’s brother) 773, 885 
al-Jubari, see: Hillel b. Yeshu’a 
al-Jubari, scholar, Jerusalem 424 
Jubayl 71, 282, 550, 573, 611, 712, 906, 

909, 912 


941 



INDEX 


Jubayr b. Nufayr (or: Nusayr) 183 
Judaean Desert scrolls 921 
Judah, Pumbedita Gaon, grandfather of 
Sherira Gaon 849 

Judah, relative of the ‘Rav’, in Europe 777 
Judah Hadasi 286 

Judah, alufof the yeshiva of the diaspora, 
b. Abraham 773, 797 
Judah ‘the western’ cantor b. Abraham b. 
Faraj. Jerusalem (see also: Moses b. 
Judah the cantor) 252, 761, 877 
Judah b. ‘Allan, Tiberias 286 
Judah b. Berekhia (father of Solomon b. 
Judah) 860 

Judah b. David b. Zakkai 773, 885 
(Abu Zikri) Judah b. Isma‘11 al-Andalusi 
(see also: Jacob b, Isma‘11 al-Andalusi) 
379 

(Abu Zikri) Judah ha-Kohen b. Joseph 
ha-Kohen, great-grandson ofjoseph 
ha-Kohen av-bet-din 378 
Judah ha-Kohen b. Joseph b. Eleazar (the 
‘Rav’) 298, 376, 377, 378, 750, 777, 
891, 894, 906, 911 

Judah (nicknamed Asad) b. Moses 779 
(Abu Zikri) Judah b. Moses ibn Sughmar, 
Fustat (brother of Labrat) 342, 376, 
810 

(Abu Zikri) Judah b. Saadia, Nagid 301, 
315, 342, 609, 750, 810, 811, 889, 895, 
897, 898, 901, 905, 913 
(Abu Zikri) Judah b. al-‘Usffira (see also: 

b. al-Sippori) 598, 876 
fidi, a kind of ship 302, 339 
Judhar, secretary of the Fatimid court 561 
Judith, grandmother of the emperor 
Henry II 722 

Juff, the Ikhshld’s ancestor 473 
jujube 337 

Julitta (or: Juditha), wife of Hugo of 
Tuscany 717 
al-jurawl, see: Maymun 
Jurf 41 

Jurjan 165, 424, 635, 701 
al-Jurjanl, see: ‘All b, Fadlan 
jum (basin) 930 
Justin II, emperor 3, 4, 19 
Justinian I, emperor 2, 3, 19, 26, 661, 669, 
680 

Justinian II, emperor (Rhinothmetos) 93, 
704 

Justus of Acre, son of Samuel 52 
Juvenal, bishop ofjerusalem (422—458) 661 
al-Juyushl, see Munir al-dawla 
Juzjan, a district in Khurasan 502 

Ka‘b al-Ahbar (who is Abu Ishaq Ka‘b b. 


Mati‘) 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, 113, 125, 

160, 185, 334, 836 
Ka‘b b. Murra al-Bahz! 169 
Ka‘b b. ‘Umayr al-Ghifari (see also: ‘Amr 
b. Ka‘b) 28 

the Ka'ba 2, 81, 105, 109, 111, 123, 577 
al-Kabbashl, see: Abu’l-‘Assaf 
Kafr ‘Ana 189 
Kafr Kana 322, 675 
Kafr Manda, in the Galilee 329 
al-Kafrmandl, see: Abraham b, David 
Kafrsaba 332, 553 
Kafrsalam 332, 941 
Kaftor (Damietta) 905 
kafir (= camphor) 346, 836, 871 
Kaffir the Ikhshldid, ruler of Egypt 474, 
475, 477, 480, 481, 485, 486, 487, 518, 
544, 545, 549, 550, 702, 716, 836, 941 
kdra, a measure of volume 608 
Karaites 1, 78, 83, 84, 85, 254, 263, 274, 
283, 288-294 , 305, 308, 310, 312, 317, 
328, 352, 360, 368, 383, 560, 579, 589, 
590, 598, 600, 668, 745, 746, 754, 768, 
769, 771, 773, 774, 775, 778, 779, 780, 
783, 785, 789, 792, 803, 804, 812, 815, 
817, 819, 820, 824-827, 828, 831, 832, 
833, 835, 837, 838, 846, 847, 848, 852, 
863, 866, 874, 875, 877, 878, 879, 880, 
881, 883, 885, 889, 897, 898, 904, 909, 
910, 911, 912, 915, 917-940, 941, 947, 
948 

Karajik, in Iraq 655 
al-Karajikl, see: Muhammad b. ‘All 
kardris, quires 342 
Karbala, in Iraq 93 
the Kashkll family 301, 898 
kathird, cedar resin 350, 380 
al-Katila, governor of Tyre 611 
al-Kattanl, see: Ahmad b. Muhammad 
Kawad Sheroe, king of Persia 9 
kaylaja, measure of volume 367 
Kaysum, in northern Syria 411 
Kfar Hananya 329 

khal'a, ceremonial attire 552, 566, 889 
Khalaf, David b. Shekhania’s son-in-law 
805 

Khalaf b, Abraham b. Khalil al-ltrabulusl 
385 

Khalaf b. ‘Allun 864 

(Abu’l-Tayyib) Khalaf b, ‘Eli ha-Kohen b. 

Ezekiel 307, 810 
Khalaf b. Isaac, Acre 301 
(al-wakil Abu’l-Barakat) Khalaf b. Joseph 
al-Hulaybl (or §6vl), merchants’ 
representative, Ramla 359, 754 


942 



INDEX 


Khalaf b. Mansur, Ramla 283 
(Abu Muhammad) Khalaf b. Muhammad 
b. ‘All b. Hamdun al-Wasitl, Ramla 
635 

Khalaf b. Mukarram, Rafah 274 
Khalaf ha-melammed ha-sovl b. Yeshu'a, 
envoy of the lepers in Tiberias 285, 
296 

al-Khalanjl, see: Ibrahim ibn Ahmad; 

Muhammad ibn ‘All 
Khalfa ibn Ibrahim, Fustat 823 
(Abu Sa'id) Khalfa al-Maghribl, a 
merchant (son-in-law of Yahya 
al-‘AmmanI) 318, 365 
Khalid b. Durayk 172 
Khalid b, Nizar b. al-Mughira b. Salim, 
Eilat 450, 451 

Khalid b. Sa'id b. al-‘As 44, 45, 47 
Khalid b. Thabit b. Ta'in b. al-‘Ajlun 
al-Fahmi 66, 69 

Khalid b. al-Walid 29, 42, 43, 51, 53, 54, 
57, 58, 61, 63, 64, 66, 130, 241 
Khalid b. Yazid 389 

Khalid b. Yazid, Abbasid commander 941 
Khalid b. Yazid, cadi (from the Banu 
Khushkhash) 134 

Khalid b. Yazid b. Mu'awiya 93, 126, 231 
the Khalij, channel of the Nile near Fustat 
564 ‘ 

Khallufb. Aaron, trademan 385 
Khalus, name of a district 122 
kharaj 23, 104, 129, 152, 171, 201, 233, 

238, 241, 242, 248, 257, 258, 361, 410, 
411, 421, 475, 481, 548, 586, 638, 941 
Khatir al-mulk 599 
Khattab b. Wajh al-Fuls, leader of the 
rebels in Sidon 410 
Khawarij 387 

Khawla, wife of‘All ibn Abi Talib 95 
al-Khawlanl, see: ‘Abdallah b. ‘Abd al- 
Rahman 

Khaybar 9, 27, 32, 255, 571 
Khazars 9, 476 

Khazraj, daughter ofShaddad b. Aws 158 
Khiba’, daughter of Abraham al-Hazzam 
al-Rushtabi, Damascus 898 
(Abu Bakr) al-Khidr b. Muhammad b. 

Ghawth al-Tanukhl, Acre 533 
Khirbat al-Karak 92 
Khirbat Mafjar 117, 143 
khiyar shanbar 353 

(AbuTJaysh) Khumarawayh b. Ahmad 
ibn Tulun 313, 367, 434, 456, 460, 

461, 473, 475, 809 
khtmts 86, 236 

Khurasan (see also: Samuel b. Sahl) 100, 


101, 165, 301, 358, 386, 394, 416, 417, 
425, 439, 443, 453, 502, 527, 582, 609, 
612, 635, 642, 652, 740, 815, 823, 828, 
921 

(Abu’l-Qalus) Khushkhash, grandfather of 
Husayn b. Malik 128 
Khusraw, king of Persia 9 
Kidron Valley (= Valley ofjehoshaphat, 
see also: [wadi] Jahnam) 228, 396, 666, 
667-668, 669, 680, 836, 846 
Kifra, near Tiberias 287 
al-Kinani, see: Shurayk 
Kirman 428, 740 

al-Kitaml, see: Mukhtar al-dawla; Fitah b. 

Buye (see also: Banu Kitama) 

Klausus, leader of the Christians in 
Palestine 704, 839 

Kohen-Sedeq b. Joseph ha-Kohen av-bet- 
din of‘the yeshiva of the diaspora', 
Baghdad 765 

Kohen Sedeq b. Joseph, gaon of 

Pumbedita 785, 787, 789, 809, 849 
Kokhav 949 

Koziba, in thejudaean hills (also: Chozeba) 
120, 675 

Kudad, in the region of Moab 95 
Kufa in Iraq (see also: ‘Aqula) 2, 57, 95, 
101, 109, 111, 123, 174, 191, 227, 389, 
405, 407, 428, 439, 463, 519, 764 
kuhl, antimony 298, 315, 353, 377 
Kuno, archbishop of Trier 726 
kiira (pi. kuwar), district 118, 122, 242, 266, 
326, 337 

KursI Sulayman, ‘Solomon’s chair’ on the 
Mount of Olives 833 
Kushanis, Samaritans 411, 941 

Labrat b. Moses b. Sughmar, Judge of 
al-Mahdiyya (brother ofjudah) 342, 
354,376,911 

al-Ladhiqi, see: Dosa b. Joshua; ‘Eli b. 
Joshua; Joshua b. Dosa; Samuel b. 
Semah 

Ladhiqiyya 87, 97, 331, 355, 416, 578, 750, 
790 

(Abu’I-Tayyib) Lahha Muhammad b. 

Hamza b. ‘Abdallah b. al-‘Abbas (Ibn 
al-Kilabiyya) b. ‘All ibn Abi Talib 
467, 487 

al-Lakhml, see: Sulayman b. Ahmad. 

Land of the Philistines (Filastin) 10, 124, 
590, 591, 595, 941 

Lantfrid, envoy of Charlemagne to Harun 
al-Rashld 396 

the Latins 396, 398, 584, 608, 666, 667, 

681, 682, 699, 700, 713, 714, 717, 
721-727 


943 



INDEX 


Lazaros, monk of Mar Saba 672 
Lazians 680 

Leo III (the Isaurian), emperor 77, 97, 672, 
685, 706 

Leo IV (the Khazar), emperor 398 
Leo I, patriarch of Jerusalem 683, 696 
Leo III, Pope 396, 681 
Leo IX, Pope 681 

the lepers in Tiberias 296-291, 591, 594, 
854 
Levi 865 

Levi, brother of Ruya, from Byzantium 
823 

(Abu Sa‘Id) Levi ha-Levi b. Yefet b. ‘All, 
Karaite Bible commentator 286, 925, 
940 

Libya 753, 823, 828 

al-Lihyanl, see: Ahmad b. ‘Abdallah 

the Litani river 550 

‘little horn’ 78, 83, 925, 929, 936 

locks 341 

Lod (Lydda) 55, 65, 80, 105, 116, 121, 122, 
130, 153, 238, 275, 282, 283, 335, 422, 
661, 699, 700, 726, 932 
Longobards 3. 4 

Louis the Pious, king of the Franks 396 
Lu’lu’, ruler of Aleppo 567 
lupine 337 

Ma‘an 29, 30, 100 

al-Ma‘arra, which is Ma'arrat Numan 887 
Maaziah (= Tiberias) 76, 83 
Macedonius, a Church official 663 
al-Madanl, see: Jawhar; Muhammad b. 
al-RabI‘ 

Madelveus, bishop of Verdun 721 
al-Madhara’I, see: Husayn b. Ahmad; 

Husayn b. Muhammad; Muhammad 
b. ‘All 

al-Madlnl, see: Hayyim b. ‘Ammar 
al-madrasa al-maymuniyya, Jerusalem 678 
al-madrasa al-nizamiyya, Baghdad 652 
al-madrasa al-sa'rdiyya, Jerusalem 839 
Madyan 21, 410 
Magdala 674 

Magharat Ibrahim (cave of Abraham), in 
the northern side of the Temple 
Mount 629, 842 

Maghrib, Maghribis (Westerners) 122, 

257, 298, 338, 349, 353, 354, 358, 
370-384, 416, 464, 470, 472, 479, 545, 
547, 549, 550, 553, 558, 561, 563, 610, 
728, 743, 750, 752, 754, 755, 762, 764, 
769, 773, 775, 776, 777, 778, 782, 795, 
797, 798, 800, 810, 816, 818, 819, 821, 
822, 828, 829, 832, 839, 855, 857, 860, 


865, 871, 873, 876, 878, 879, 881, 882, 
886, 890, 891, 892, 893, 898, 906, 911, 
914 

al-Maghribl, see: Abu ‘Amlrayn al- 

Sha'ranl; Avon b. Sedaqa; ‘Ayyash b. 
Sedaqa; Eleazar b. Samuel; Jasus; 
Khalfa; Moses b. Isaac 
Magnesia, in Asia Minor 672 
Mahalla, in Egypt 721, 909, 912 
Mahbub b. Nissim the cantor, a Maghribi 
Karaite 331, 343, 355, 828, 930 
al-Mahdl (Muhammad b. ‘Abdallah), 
caliph 303, 388, 390, 393, 399, 400, 
406, 418 

al-Mahdiyya 274, 301, 342, 349, 376, 378, 
764, 821, 865, 886, 911 
Mahmud b, al-Mufarrij thejarrahid 577 
(Abu’l-Zahir) Mahmud b. Muhammad 
al-NahwI 568 

Mahoze, capital of the Persian kingdom 
370, 746 

Ma‘in, near Madaba 674 
Mainz 351, 574, 726, 776, 777 
Majd al-dawla, see: Fitah b. Buye 
majlis (pi. majdlis), places of congregation 
of the Karaites 289, 769, 936 
Majrlt (= Madrid) 822 
(Abu’ 1-Ward) Majzah b. al-Kawthar 99 
ma’kala, the region from which a tribe is 
entitled to collect taxes 231 
Makhlr, Tiberias 285 
(Abu Sa'Id) Makhluf b. Azariah 353, 358 
al-Makhzuml, see: Muhammad b. Nasr; 
Mujalllb. Naja 

Makln al-dawla, see: Hasan b. ‘All 
(Abu’l-Qasim) MakkI b. ‘Abd al-Salam 
al-Rumayl! al-MaqdisI 110, 620, 630, 
943 

makkuk, measure of volume 367 
mates (see also: sahib al-maks), tax on 
imports 258, 259, 361 
mal'ab Sulayman, in ‘Amman 318 
Mallj, in Egypt 285, 328, 914 
Malik b. ‘Abdallah al-Khath‘amI 387 
Malik b. Ahmad al-BaniyasI 328 
Malik b. Anas 174, 389, 400, 402 
Malik b. Hubayra 223 
Malik b. Rafila 29 
Malik-Shah, son of Alp Arslan 606 
the Malikis (school of law) 629, 651 
Malka, daughter of Rawh, Ramla 822 
Mamilla 836 
Mamin, in Syria 558 

(Abu Salam) Mamtur al-Dimashql al-A‘raj 
al-Aswad al-Habashl 192 
al-Ma’mun, caliph 104, 394, 410, 411, 412, 


944 



INDEX 


413, 414, 419, 427, 443, 456, 678, 689, 
709, 710, 919, 941 

Ma’mun the Turcoman, brother of Atsiz 
603 

(Abu Sahl) Manasseh ha-Kohen b. 

Abraham, Jerusalem (son-in-law of 
Solomon b. Judah) 590, 858, 864, 865 
(Abu Sahl) Manasseh b. Abraham al- 
Qazzaz 270, 558, 560, 562, 564, 803, 
875 

Manasseh b. Isaac, Tyre 274 
Manasseh b. Joseph, Fustat 806 
Manasseh b. Joshua he-haver, Tyre 339, 
383, 884 

Manasseh b. Judah, a descendant of 

Shemaiah Gaon (Solomon b. Judah’s 
brother) 328, 860 
Manasseh b. Saadia, 911 
Manasseh b. Samuel, Ramla 772 
Manbij 300 
Mani 109 

Manichaeans 46, 97, 109, 201, 399, 575, 
930 

Manjutakin, Fatimid commander 563, 564 
matin, measure of weight 330, 338, 345, 
346, 353 

manshur, official order 778, 779, 889 
Mansur, Acre, Tyre 298 
(Abu Ja’far) al-Mansur, Abbasid caliph 
100, 101, 303, 387, 388, 390, 395, 417, 
418, 688, 707, 917 
al-Mansur, Fatimid caliph 561 
Mansur al-Blb”I (?), governor ofjerusalem 
608, 678 

Mansur b. ‘Abdun, wazir 569 
Mansur b. David b. Shekhania (Yefet’s 
brother) 805, 894 

(Abu’l-Hasan) Mansur b. Isma‘11 al-Darir, 
Ramla 514 

Mansur b. Jumhur, governor of Iraq 98 
(Murtada al-dawla) Mansur b. Lu’lu’, 
Aleppo 567, 588 

Mansur b. al-Mu‘alIima, Fustat 945 
Mansur b. Sergius, governor of Damascus 
48, 58, 61, 672, 692, 695 
Mansur ha-Levi b. Solomon 283 
Mansur b. Solomon b. Judah 762, 864 
Mansur b. $udayq, Rafiah, see: Abraham 
b. Mansur; Moses b. Mansur 
al-maqadisa, Jerusalemites (see also: dar 
al-maqadisa) 783 
Maqara al-Nabrawi 678 
al-MaqdisI, see: ‘Abd al-‘Aziz; ‘Ata’; 
Muhammad b. Abu Bakr; 

Muhammad b. Rudayh al-Mutahhar 


b. al-Mutahhar; Makki; al-Musharraf 
b. ai-Murajja; Nasr b. Ibrahim; 
Nethanel (Hibat Allah) b, Yeshu’a; 
Salama b. Isma’Il 
Maqna 36, 38, 39 
Marianus the cubicular 54 
Marj ‘Imwas 60 
Marj Rahit 53, 93 
Marj al-Rum 59 
Marj Suffar 44, 47, 48 
marjiz, mosque, as called by Jews 573 
Mark II, patriarch ofjerusalem 683, 699 
Maronites 676 
Marseilles 395 

Martin I, Pope 663, 672, 681 
Martina, Heraclius’ wife 9 
Marw, in Khurasan 439, 443 
Marwan b. ‘Abdallah b. ‘Abd al-Malik 98 
Marwan b. al-Hakam, caliph 89, 93, 97, 
120, 126, 184, 223, 313, 847 
Marwan (II) b. Muhammad b. Marwan, 
caliph 98, 99, 101, 126, 138, 235 
Marwan b. Suqayr 596, 894 
Marzuban, brother of Bakhtiyar 553 
Mar Zutra b. Mar Zutra 729, 730, 773, 

774, 849, 852, 885 
Masarra b. Ma‘bad 196 
al-Masasa, Fustat 805 
(Abu ‘All) Masbah b. Hilqam al-‘Ijli, 

Ramla 636 

masharif al-balqa (the hills of Moab) 29 
mashkad of‘Umar ibn al-Khattab, Gaza 309 
masjid, mosque, see also under: mosque 
masjid al-Aqsa 86, 104, 108-109, 111, 114, 
470, 484, 617, 669, 836 
masjid al-Azhar 549 

masjid al-Buraq (see also: bab Buraq) 846 
masjid Da’ud 846 

masjid Ibn al-Banna’, al-Qahira 918 
masjid al-Rashida, Fustat 566 
masjid al-yasmm, Tiberias 284 
maskilim 294, 824, 826, 933, 938 
Maslama, ‘the false prophet’ 43 
Maslama b. ‘Abd al-Malik 72, 151, 163, 

168 

Maslama b. Makhlad, governor 88, 131 
Masliali 874, 879 

Masliah b. Eliah (dayyan of Sicily; 

’ Eliah = Abu Sahl Basaq) 776, 828 
Masliah ha-Kohen Gaon, b. Solomon 
ha-Kohen Gaon 790, 853, 916 
Masliah b. Yefet b. Zub‘a 903, 904 
al-Masmudi, see: Intisar ibn Yahya 
Masruq 69 

Masrur b. Abl ‘Amir, governor of 
Shechem 941 


94 S 



INDEX 


Mata mahsiyya 765, 774 
(Rav) Matityahu, Pumbedita 881 
mats 339, 355, 805, 845 
Mauritius, emperor 4, 19 
Maurus, the Amalfian 718 
Mawhub 866 
Mawhub b. Faraj 753 

Mawhub (= Nathan) b, Mevasser 753, 877 
Mawhub b. Yefet 883 
mawla, mawali, converted to Islam, under 
the aegis of tribes or of Muslim 
personalities 100, 104, 150, 151, 164, 
165, 173, 175, 189, 193, 195, 202, 270, 
284, 313, 345, 390, 399, 400, 404, 408, 
419, 427, 437, 439, 441, 443, 444, 450, 
451, 452, 454, 470, 489, 494, 507, 511 
Mayafariqln 577 
Maymun 349 
Maymun al-dawla 869 
Maymun al-Qaddah 462 
Maymun b. Hasan, Tiberias 285 
Maymun b. al-Jurawl, from QaPat Ayyub 
(brother of ‘Imran the cantor) 821 
Maymun b. Khalfa al-Maghribl 306 
Maymun b. Mihran 98 
Mayumas (the port of Gaza) 624, 672, 674, 
705 

al-Mazini, see: Muhammad b. ‘All 
Mazyad b. Hudayr 224 
ha-me‘ara ( al-maghdra , the cave), the 

synagogue in Jerusalem 355, 770, 818, 
839, 845 , 856, 865, 876 
Mecca 2, 9, 12, 13, 18, 27, 33, 42, 63, 64, 
81, 88, 93, 95, 105, 109, 111, 112, 114, 
175, 179, 191, 224, 281, 313, 403, 405, 
409, 417, 418, 419, 424, 463, 464, 489, 
511, 577, 582, 588, 612, 644, 645, 655 
medicaments, perfumes, spices 346, 350, 
353, 360, 371, 381, 384 
Medina 9, 12, 18, 21, 27, 29, 34, 35, 41, 

42, 63, 64, 66, 69, 72, 79, 80, 81, 88, 
89, 93, 95, 102, 103, 107, 109, 111, 

112, 114, 129, 134, 141, 149, 156, 158, 
201, 223, 224, 225, 229, 266, 295, 313, 
345, 389, 400, 424, 463, 575, 577, 602 
the Mediterranean (‘the Salty Sea’) 116, 

310, 311, 330, 351, 360, 361, 370, 778, 
816, 899 

Megiddo, Lajjun 54, 122, 476, 477 
Meir of Kastoria 286 

Meir, one of Meir Gaon’s forefathers 789, 
849, 852 

Meir rosh ha-seder, father of Solomon 
he-haver 851 

Meir Gaon b. Aaron b. Moses b, Meir 
301, 785, 787, 849, 850, 851, 852, 853, 
868, 870, 926 


Meir ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli, Baniyas 357, 916 
Melchizedek, Nestorian scribe in Jerusalem 
679 

Melkites 26, 570, 661, 676, 710 
(Rav) Menahem, Pumbedita 881 
Menahem b. Makhir of Regensburg 733 
Menahem ha-Kohen b. Elijah Gaon 853 
Menahem ha-Kohen b. Isaiah, Ramla 283 
Menas, patriarch of Jerusalem 683, 699 
Meron 325 
meshilia dagla 80 
Meshullam 821 

(Abu’l-Fadl) Meshullam, Acre 301 
Meshullam b. Moses, of Mainz 776, 777, 
901 

(Abu Nasr Muslim) Meshullam b. 

Shu'ayb, Fustat 912 
Meshullam (known as) ibn Shurayq al- 
Dimashqi 912 

Meshullam b. Solomon 912 
Mesopotamia 4, 9, 59, 550, 561 
mesos ha-yeshwd, see: Abraham b. David b. 
Sughmar 750, 818 

Messianism 76-80, 820, 915, 916, 933, 935 
Methodius, bishop of Patara 19 
Mevasser, Gaon of Pumbedita 785, 789, 

849 

Mevasser (Bishr) al-Arjawanl, Fustat 
(father of Abraham and Jacob, 
grandfather of Halfon b. Jacob) 793 
Mevasser ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli 311 
Mevasser b. Isaac, a Karaite 936 
Mevasser b, Jesse, rosh ha-qehilldt, ne’emdn 
ha-yeshtva 876 

Mevasser b. Sahlan b. Shelah al-‘AmtanI 
(husband of Mu’ammala) 335 
Mevasser ha-sofer (the scribe) b. Shelah 
al-‘Amtam, Jerusalem (Ramla?), 
husband of Ghaliya, daughter of 
Ashlimun al-Dalatl 319 
Mevorakh 900 
Mevorakh, Ascalon 305, 383 
Mevorakh ha-Kohen, Ascalon (see also: 
Nathan ha-Kohen b, Mevorakh, his 
son) 306 

Mevorakh, grandfather of Mevorakh b, 
Saadia 811 

Mevorakh the scribe 588 
Mevorakh (Mubarak) b. Abraham, Fustat 
764 

Mevorakh b. ‘Allun b. Moses 877 
Mevorakh b. David, a money-changer 817 
Mevorakh b, David, Qayrawan 871 
(Abu’l-Fadl) Mevorakh b. ‘Eli (b. Ezra), 
rosh ha-qehilldt, Nathan b. Abraham’s 
father-in-law 871, 875, 879, 911 


946 



INDEX 


Mevorakh b. Ezekiel, Acre 301 
(Abu Nasr) Mevorakh (Muhassin) b. 

Husayn al-wakil = Ibn ukht Sham‘an, 
the merchants’ representative 339, 

359, 360, 753, 868 

(Abu’l-‘Ala) Mevorakh (al-Mubarak) b. 
Isaac (Ishaq) 363, 887 

Mevorakh ha-Kohen b. Joseph, Ramla 283 
Mevorakh b. Joshua, Jerusalem 866 
Mevorakh b. Mawhub b. Faraj 753 
Mevorakh ha-Kohen b. Nathan, Ascalon 
307 

Mevorakh b. Nathan of Gaza (brother of 
‘Amram) 309, 835 

Mevorakh b. Nathan b. Nisan, Karaite 848 
(Abu’l-Khayr) Mevorakh b. Nathan b. 

Nisan ha-Levi 848 
(Abu’l-Fadl) Mevorakh the Nagid b. 

Saadia 301, 315, 330, 607, 609, 746, 
755, 809, 810 , 811, 857, 898, 901, 904, 
905, 906, 911-914 , 945, 946 
Mevorakh ‘the sixth’ b, Solomon 890 
Meyshan 128, 153 
Michael 1 (Rangabe), emperor 709 
Michael III (‘the drunkard’), emperor 680 
Michael IV (the Paphlagonian), emperor 
597 

Michael, a Georgian monk in Sinai 680 
Michael, monk of Mar Saba 704 
Michael the Synkellos 689 
MTgas, a descendant of Mar Zutra 849 
mihrab Da'ud (the Temple Mount; Dome 
of the Rock) 80, 81, 111, 595, 606, 

609, 680, 845, 943, 947 
mihrab Maryam 844 
mihrab Ya'qub 842 

mihrab Zakkariyya, Jerusalem 629, 842 
mihrjdn, a Persian holiday 463 
miqwe, ritual bath 283 
mi'raj (‘the ladder’), ascension of the 
Prophet to heaven 109 
MIsa, a descendant of Mar Zutra 849 
misr, amsar, fortified coastal city (or 
frontier-town) 117 
Misrayim = Fustat 305, 813, 830, 831 
mithqdl (= dinar), weight unit 367 
Modestus, abbot of the monastery of St 
Theodosius 8, 116, 662, 666 
Monastery of Afeq (= dayr Flq) 674 
Monastery of Cluny 772, 839 
Monastery of Croyland 331 
Monastery of the forty martyrs, Jerusalem 
680 

Monastery of the Gogarenes, Jerusalem 
680 

Monastery of the Iberians, Jerusalem 680 


Monastery of the Jordan 19 
Monastery of Koziba 120 
Monastery of Mar Saba 392, 396, 663, 612, 
680, 681, 687, 689, 700, 704, 708, 709 
Monastery of Mary Magdalene 678, 839 
Monastery of Mayumas 705 
Monastery of Monte Cassino 722 
Monastery of Mount Tabor 673 
Monastery of Panda (Pantaleon), Jerusalem 
680 

Monastery of Qartamln 111 
Monastery of Queen Mary (of Georgia) 

680 

Monastery of the seven springs in Tabgha 
674 

Monastery of the Spoudaioi, Jerusalem 
689, 696 

Monastery of St Aubin, Angers 722 
Monastery of St Catherine 100, 695 
Monastery of St Chariton 392, 674, 675, 
708, 709 

Monastery of St Euthymius (which is khan 
al-ahmar) 19, 92, 675, 709 
Monastery of St James son of Zebedee, 
Jerusalem 680 

Monastery of St John 675, 680 
Monastery of St Mary, Koziba 675 
Monastery of St Peter, Jerusalem 680 
Monastery of St Stephen 675 
Monastery of St Theoctistus 675 
Monastery of St Theodosius, Bethlehem 8, 
663, 675, 708, 709 

Monastery of the Virgins, Jerusalem 666 
Monasteries of the Albanians, Jerusalem 
680 

money orders (see also: diydqne , suftaja) 364 
Monophysites 9, 333, 661, 676-678, 730 
Monotheletism 9, 65, 661, 663, 672 
Mordecai ha-Kohen b. Menahem 853 
Moses, bishop of Ailane 36 
Moses, of Egypt 823 
Moses, forefather of Meir Gaon 789, 849, 
852 

Moses ha-‘AzatI (the Gazan), masorete 
288, 309 

(Abu ‘Imran) Moses (Musa) al-hazan (the 
cantor) al-'ajami 761, 777 
Moses Muha, masorete 288 
Moses b. Aaron, see: Halfon b. Moses 
Moses ha-Kohen b. Aaron, a Karaite, 
father-in-law of David b. Daniel 904 
(Abu ‘Imran) Moses (Musa) b. Abl’l-Hayy 
Khalila 383, 832, 883, 914 
(Abu’l-Khayr) Moses (Musa) b. Abraham 
(Barhun) al-Tahirtl 374, 828, 829 
Moses b. ‘Amram, Ramla 283 


947 



INDEX 


Moses b. Asher, masorete 288, 294 
Moses he-haver b. Elhanan, Tyre (see also: 
Samuel he-haver b. Moses he-haver ; 
Elhanan b. Moses he-haver) 868 
Moses (Musa) b. Eliezer, physician at the 
Fatimid court 561 

Moses b. Ghalib, see: Ghalib b, Moses 
Moses ha-Kohen b. Ghulayb (1) Fustat (see 
also: Ghulayb ka-Kohen b. Moses b. 
Ghulayb; Mulk daughter of Moses 
ha-Kohen b. Ghulayb) 802, 868 
Moses ha-Kohen b. Ghulayb (2; see also: 
Saadia ha-Kohen b. Moses b. 

Ghulayb) 315 
Moses b. Hasdai Taku 921 
Moses (Musa) b. Hiba b. Salmun al-Sefati 
285, 327 

Moses the cantor b. Husayn al-Dulukl, 
father of Na‘ima (see also: Na'ima 
daughter of Moses) 794 
Moses b. Isaac, a Karaite 346, 827, 929 
Moses b. Isaac, a Karaite from Warjlan 827 
Moses b. Isaac b. Nissim al-‘Abid 816 
Moses ha-sofer b. Isaac he-haver b. 

Solomon he-haver b. Meir Gaon 301, 
851 

Moses (Musa) he-haver b. Jacob he-haver, 
brother of Nissim, Jerusalem 330, 

344, 355, 360, 374, 375, 383, 384, 596, 
816, 820, 829, 845 

Moses b. Jekuthiel al-Andalusi, Fustat, 
Tyre 752, 816, 876 
Moses b. Joseph b. Kashkll 301 
Moses b. Judah, the cantor (see also: Judah 
the cantor b. Abraham) 258, 365 
Moses the cantor b. Khalaf 799 
Moses (Musa) b. Mansur, Rafiah (brother 
of Abraham b. Mansur) 274 
Moses b. Meir, see: Aaron b. Moses b. 

Meir; Meir Gaon b. Aaron b. Moses 
Moses b. Mevasser, brother of Mawhub 
(Nathan) and Isaac, in Egypt 753, 877 
Moses b. Samuel b. Sahl, Tiberias 285 
Moses b. Semah al-Azraq the magician, 
Tyre 297, 341, 794 
Moses b. Shahriyar, Damascus 857 
Moses b. Sughmar, see: Judah b. Moses; 
Labrat b. Moses 

Moses (Mdsa) b. Ya'qub 337, 364, 596 
mosques, see also under: masjid 
mosque of Constantinople 569, 576, 598 
mosque, ‘the white’, Ramla 116 
Mosul 394, 435, 477, 548, 557, 565, 772, 
773, 779, 885 
Mount Hermon 558 
Mount Lebanon 236, 588 


Mount of Olives 82, 87, 106, 107, 251, 

274, 3%, 666, 667, 669, 680, 681, 770, 
783, 784, 789, 814, 818, 828, 830, 
831-833, 836, 840, 844, 846, 863, 874, 
876, 883, 890, 899, 917, 930, 935, 937 
Mount Paran 675 
Mount Sinin 111 

Mount Tabor 102, 550, 551, 673, 680 
Mount Zion 87, 114, 680, 712, 838, 847, 
943 

mourners of Zion 824-827 
mu'addal, notary 495, 756 
Muadh b. Jabal 64, 74, 225 
(Abu ‘Abd al-Rahman) Mu’ammal b. Ihab 
b. ‘Abd al-‘AzIz 428 
Mu’ammala daughter of Samuel b. 

Manasseh b, Abraham al-Qazzaz 335, 
560 

Mu'awiya b. Abl Sufyan, caliph 45, 71, 72, 
73, 74, 88, 90, 91, 92, 93, 102, 117, 
118, 126, 129, 131-133, 141, 147, 148, 
158, 177, 181, 187, 188, 202, 222, 230, 
231, 244, 266, 334, 389, 664 
(Abu ‘Abdallah) Mu'awiya b. Yashar, 
wazir 399 

Mu'awiya b, Yazid, caliph 93 
al-Mu’ayyad fi’l-din al-Shlrazi, Fatimid 
preacher 598 

Mubarak (Jews), see: Mevorakh 
Mubarak al-dawla, see: Fath 
Mubaraka 274, 879, 932 
al-Mubarqa‘, see: Tamim 
Mudallala, daughter of Wahban, Fustat 823 
mudi, measure of volume 367 
al-Mufaddal b. Salam al-Namari 303 
Mufarrij al-FasI (brother of Isaac the 
cantor) 821 

al-Mufarrij b. Daghfal b. al-Jarrah 550, 

553, 557, 559, 562, 563, 577,'578, 581 
Mufarrij b. Sulayman, al-Qahira 905 
Mufarrij b. Yefet b, Shu'ayb ha- 
Darmashqi 756 

Muflih the Black, governor ofjerusalem 
470 

Muflih al-Wahbanl, Fatimid commander 
559 

Muhajirun 63 
al-Muhallab 96, 165 

Muhammad, the prophet 1, 2, 9, 12, 18, 
27-41, 42, 46, 68, 76, 77, 81, 88, 93, 
94, 98, 103, 106, 109, 110, 111, 112, 
113, 114, 141, 158, 161, 165, 170, 179, 
182, 201, 202, 225, 226, 228, 232, 236, 
237, 240, 241, 243, 255, 266, 313, 333, 
346, 402, 417, 430, 463, 547, 575, 702, 
869, 918 


948 



INDEX 


(Abu Bakr) Muhammad b. al-‘Abbas b. 
Wasif, Gaza 651 

Muhammad b. ‘Abd al-Malik 98 
(Abu ‘Abdallah) Muhammad b. ‘Abd 

al-‘Az!z b. Muhammad al-‘Umari (Ibn 
al-Wasiti) 432 

Muhammad b. ‘Abdallah b. ‘Umayr 
al-Yafunl, Jaffa 542 
Muhammad b. ‘Abdawayh 415 
(Abu ‘Abdallah) Muhammad b. Abi Bakr 
al-Banna’, Shams al-din al-MaqdisI 
(who is al-Muqaddasi, see also in the 
bibliographical index: al-Muqaddasi) 
612 

Muhammad b. Abi Hashim, ruler of 
Mecca 645 

Muhammad b. Abi Raff, governor of 
Ramla 456, 457 

(Abu Bakr al-Ramli) Muhammad b. 

Ahmad al-Nabulusi, who is Ibn 
al-Nabulusi 555, 941 
Muhammad b. Ahmad al-Najdi 541 
Muhammad b. Ahmad al-Sulaml, leader of 
rebels 480 

Muhammad b. Ahmad al-Wasiti, (see also: 

‘Umar b. Muhammad) 460, 470 
(Abu’l-Husayn) Muhammad b. Ahmad b. 
‘Abd al-Rahman al-Malati, Ascalon 
647 

Muhammad b. Ahmad b. ‘Absun, Ramla 
525 

(Abu Ja‘far) Muhammad b. Ahmad b. 
Ibrahim al-‘Aqari al-Ramli, ‘Aqir, 
Ramla 539 

(Abu Bakr) Muhammad b. Ahmad b. 
Muhammad al-Wasiti, preacher 
(khatib) in Jerusalem 617 
(Abu ‘Abdallah) Muhammad b. Ahmad b. 
Sa‘id al-Tamimi, a physician, 

Jerusalem 556 

(Abu Bakr) Muhammad b. Ahmad b. 

‘Umar, al-Darir, Ramla 520 
Muhammad b. ‘All al-Karajiki, Shiite 
leader 656 

Muhammad (Ibrahim) b. ‘All al-Khalanji 
'(or al-Khaliji) 112, 468, 469, 695 
(Abu Bakr) Muhammad b. ‘All al- 
Madhara’i 473, 488, 521 
Muhammad b. ‘All b. ‘Abdallah b. ‘Abbas 
'l00 

Muhammad b. ‘All b. Yahya b. Silwan 
al-Mazini 630 

(Abu ‘Abdallah) Muhammad b. ‘Aziz b. 
‘Abdallah b. Ziyad b. Khalid b. ‘Aqil 
b. Khalid, Eilat 445 
Muhammad b. Ghunaym al-Sa‘di 424 


Muhammad b. Hammad al-RazI al- 
Tabarani, Ascalon 442 
Muhammad b. al-Hanafiyya 95, 463 
(Abu Bakr) Muhammad b. al-Harith b. 

al-Nu‘man al-Iyadi, cadi 453 
(Abu’l-Qasim) Muhammad b. Hasan 
al-Nakha‘I, Ibn Ka’s, Ramla 519 
Muhammad b. Hasan b. Musa b. 

‘Abdallah al-Balasha‘unI al-Ashqali, 
cadi in Jerusalem 628 
(Abu’l-‘Abbas) Muhammad b. Hasan b. 
Qutayba 426, 529 

(Abu ‘Abdallah) Muhammad b. Ibrahim, 
Jerusalem 507 

Muhammad b. Ibrahim, son of the caliph 
al-Mansur 388 

(Abu’l-Fath) Muhammad b. Ibrahim b. 
Muhammad b. Yazid al-Tarsusi (who 
is Ibn al-Basri), Jerusalem 618 
Muhammad b. Ibrahim b. Qarwazi, 

Ramla 636 

Muhammad b. Ibrahim b. Sariya, Acre 
'532 

(Abu ‘Abdallah) Muhammad b. Idris 
al-Shafi‘i 401, 409, 450, 516 
(Abu’l-‘Abbas) Muhammad b. Ishaq 
al-Siraj al-Naysaburi 507 
Muhammad b. Isma‘il al-Sinaji, governor 
ofjerusalem 485, 545 
(Abu Nu‘aym) Muhammad b. Ja'far 
al-Khara’iti al-Samirl, Ramla 522 
Muhammad b. Ja‘far al-Mimasi 624 
Muhammad b. Ka‘b al-Qurazi 112, 225 
(Abu ‘Ubaydallah) Muhammad b. Karram 
424, 624 

(Abu’I-MunaJjim) Muhammad b. Makki 
b. Muhammad b. Ibrahim al-Dari, 
poet, Ramla 641 

(Abu Nasr) Muhammad b. Muhammad 
al-Farabi, philosopher 478 
(Abu’l-Tayyib) Muhammad b. 

Muhammad al-Hanzali, cadi of Ramla 
517 

(Abu ‘Abdallah) Muhammad b. 

Muhammad al-Taliqani, Tyre 657 
Muhammad b. Muhammad b. Ahmad 
al-Naysaburi, Tiberias 643 
(Abu Bakr) Muhammad b. Muslim b. 
Shihab al-Zuhri 162, 175, 176, 177, 
401, 444 

(Abu Ghassan) Muhammad b, Mutarrif b. 

Da’ud al-Laythi 400 
Muhammad b. al-Mutawakkil b. Abi’l- 
Surri 441 

Muhammad b. al-Muwallad, Turkish 
commander 422 


949 



INDEX 


(Abu ‘Abdallah) Muhammad b. Nasr b. 
Saghir b. Khalid al-Makhzuml, a poet 
(who is Muhadhdhib al-din, or 
‘Uddat al-din, ibn al-Qaysarani) 653 
(Abu Muhammad, or Abu Nu‘aym) 
Muhammad b. al-Rabi‘ b. Suraqa 
al-Madani 142 

Muhammad b. Rudayh b. ‘Atiyya al- 
Maqdisi 430 

(Abu’l Faraj) Muhammad b. Sa‘ld, 

Tiberias 498 

Muhammad b. Sa'id b, Hassan 98 
(Abu’l-Asbagh) Muhammad b. Sima'a 
al-Qurashi 427 

Muhammad b. Shaddad b. Aws 1158 
Muhammad b. Sulayman 393 
Muhammad b. Sulayman al-Wathiqi, 
army commander 467, 469 
(Abu’l-Fadl) Muhammad b. Tahir b. ‘All 
b. Ahmad al-Maqdisi al-Shaybani, 
who is Ibn al-Qaysarani 634 
Muhammad b. Takin, governor of 
Tiberias 500 

Muhammad ibn Tughj, the Ikhshid 367, 
473, 479, 487, 488. 500, 702, 710, 836 
Muhammad b. ‘Ubayd b. Adam, Ascalon 
'527 

Muhammad b. ‘Ubaydallah al-Kurayzi 422 
(Abu Zur‘a) Muhammad b. ‘Uthman 460, 
489 

(Abu Bakr) Muhammad b. al-Walid b. 
Mahmud (or: Muhammad) al- 
Turtushi al-Qurashi al-Fihri 629 
Muhammad (Hananiya?) b. Yahya (al- 
Siraj) leader of a rebellion 479 
Muhammad b. Yazdad, aide of the 
governor, Ramla 469 

(Abu Ya‘la) Muhammad b. Zuhayr, Shiite 
cadi in Eilat 636 

Muhassin b. Badus, Fatimid keeper of the 
treasury 587 
al-Muhtadi, caliph 422 
al-Mu‘izz, Fatimid caliph 241, 246, 367, 
486, 543, 544, 545, 549, 550, 551, 552, 
561, 563, 589, 809, 860 
al-Mu‘izz b. Badis, ruler of Qayrawan 
Mujahid 246 

(Abu’l-Ma‘ali) Mujalll b. Jaml‘ b. Naja 
al-Makhzumi, Jerusalem 632 
Mujammi‘ b. Jariya 80 
al-Mukhariq b. al-Harith al-Zubaydi 88, 
147 

Mukhtar, leader of a rebellion 95, 188 
Mukhtar b. Solomon (Salama) al- 
Dimashqi 822 

Mukhtar al-dawla ibn Nizal al-Kitaml, 
governor of Tripoli 564 
al-Muktafi, caliph 467, 469, 470, 696 


Mulayk daughter of Samuel b. Manasseh 
b. Abraham al-Qazzaz 560 
Mulk, daughter of Moses ha-Kohen b. 

Ghulayb, Fustat 868 
Mundhir b. Shaddad b, Aws 158 
Munir, Fatimid commander 562 
Munir al-dawla al-Juyushi, Fatimid 
commander 611, 909, 912 
Mu’nis, Abbasid commander 470, 472 
Munjib al-dawla, amir 782 
Munyat Hisham, near Tiberias 233 
Munyat al-qa’id, in Egypt 561, 868 
muqaddam (= appointee) 315, 733, 7 92, 898 
aI-Muqanna‘, see: Salih ibn Yusuf 
Muqatil b. Sulayman 111, 112 
al-Muqtadir, caliph 112, 267, 270, 470, 
472, 475, 696, 710 
murabba'at al-'attarm, Fustat 801 
Murajja, Jerusalem 590, 620, 781 
mu'raqa, mountain pass 44 
murr, myrrh 346 

Murra b. Ka‘b al-Sulami al-Bahzi 161 
Murtada al-dawla, see: Mansur b. Lu’lu’ 
Musa (Jews), see: Moses 
Musa, a friend of Ya'qub ibn Killis 549 
Musa al-Kazim 843 

Musa al-Muzaffar, governor of al-Sham 
470 

Musa b. ‘Abdallah b. Musa, (who is Abu 
‘Imran al-QaratlsI) 454 
(Anba) Musa b. Hakim al-Qasis, Adhruh 
100, 674 

Musa b. ‘Isa al-Baghdadi, Ramla 435 
Mus'ab b. ‘Amr 154, 234 
Mu§‘ab b. Zubayr 93 
Musafir b. Yish'ib. Isra’il, Tiberias 285 
(Abu ‘Imran) Musa b. Sahl b. Qadim 430 
mushaf, book (especially: the Bible) 764 
(Abu’l-Ma‘ali) al-Musharraf b. al-Murajja 
b. Ibrahim al-Maqdisi (see also: 
Abii’l-Ma‘ali, and in the 
bibliographical index) 110, 114, 274, 
590, 620, 630, 781 
Mushayya 1 , cousin of al-Mufarrij b. 

Daghfal 557 
musk 871 

Muslim (Jews), see: Meshullam 
the Muslim cemetery in Jerusalem 836 
Muslim (= Maslama b. Makhlad? Muslim 
b. ‘Uqba?) 131 
Muslim b. Abi Sahl 949 
Muslim b. Dhakwan 98 
(Abuja'far) Muslim b. ‘Ubaydallah b. 

Tahir b. Yahya, Ramla 487 
Muslim b. ‘Uqba 131, 149 
al-Musta'In, caliph 421, 422, 694 


950 



INDEX 


al-Musta‘11, caliph 942, 946 
al-Mustanjid, caliph 201 
al-Mustansir, caliph 304, 367, 594, 597, 
598, 603, 607, 610, 712, 716, 718, 746, 
780, 946 

(mother of) al-Mustansir 598, 780 
Mu’ta 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 41 
al-Mu‘tadid, caliph 460, 809 
al-Mutahhar b. al-Mutahhar (or: al-Tahir) 
al-Maqdisi 613 
mulakallimun 286 

al-Mu‘tamid, caliph 422, 460, 695 
al-Mutanabbl, poet 474, 478, 479 
al-Mu‘ta§im, caliph 116, 411, 414, 419, 

473,'691, 702, 941 

al-Mutawakkil, caliph 267, 269, 411, 415, 
420, 693, 941 

al-Mu‘tazz, caliph 422, 456 
Mu'tazz al-dawla, governor of Filastln 783 
al-Muthanna b. Mu’awiya 119 
al-MutI‘, caliph 697 
al-Muttaql, caliph 476 
Muvhar b. Sedaqa, Alexandria 903 
(Abu Ahmad) al-Muwaffaq, brother of the 
caliph al-Mu‘tamid 460 
al-Muwaffaq, leader of rebellion 422 
(stronghold) al-Muwaqqar, in southern 
Trans-Jordan 401 
al-Muwaqqari, see: al-Walld b. 

Muhammad 

(Abu’l-Fath) Muzahim b. Ibn Ra’iq 476 
Muzahim b. Khaqan, Turkish commander 
421 

Na'aman) (or Nu'man?) ha-melammed, 
Tiberias 285, 738, 753 
(Nabat) Nabateans (= Aramaic speaking 
villagers) 34, 86, 153, 226, 266, 843 
Nabulus, see: Shechem 
al-Nabulusi, see: Nasr b. Ibrahim 
Nafis al-Rumi, Acre 531 
Nafis b. ‘Abdallah (son of the cadi Ibn 
‘Aqll, Tyre) 611, 899 
Nafisa daughter of‘Ubaydallah 410 
Nagid 747, 790, 809-811, 892, 905, 913 
Nahrwan 728 

Nahum b. Abraham, see: Nehemiah b. 
Abraham 

Nahum the cantor, b. Joseph al-Baradanl 
298 

Nahum b. Sahl the cantor, al-Baradanl 298 
Nahum b. Yannai, of the BaradanI family 
' 899 

al-NahwI, see: Mahmud b. Muhammad 
Na‘ima, daughter of Moses the cantor b. 
Husayn al-Dulukl, Tiberias, Tyre 285, 
297, 794 

Najah al-dawla, annr600 


al-Najdl, see: Muhammad b. Ahmad 
Najran, in the Arabian peninsula 238, 240, 
243, 269, 730 

al-Nakha‘I, see: Muhammad b. Hasan 
al-Namarl, see: Mufaddal b, Salam 
ttaqiis (pieces of wood used as a bell) 11, 
269, 700 

Narbonne, see: Yeda'ya 
Nasa, in Khurasan 430 
al-Nasa’I, see: Ahmad b. ‘All 
al-Nasha’I (see also: Abraham b. Sunbat) 
806, 872 

Nashiya, daughter of Moses ha-Kohen b. 

Aaron, wife of David b, Daniel 904 
nasi, nesi’tm (see also: exilarch) 254, 289, 
773, 774, 783, 799, 809, 852, 866, 883, 
885, 902, 903, 905, 907, 908, 915, 917, 
919, 926-927, 929 

al-NasIblnl, see: ‘Abd aI-‘AzIz b. Ahmad 
(Abii’l-Hawa) Naslm b. ‘Abdallah al- 
Sharabl, governor ofjerusalem 470 
Nasir al-dawla, see: Munir al-dawla 
Nasir al-dawla Aftakln, governor of 
Alexandria 942 

Nasir al-dawla the Hamdanid 367, 488 
Nasir al-dln, see: Hasan b. ‘All 
( al-zawiya ) al-Nasiriyya (al-Ghazaliyya), 
Jerusalem 624 

(Abu’l-Fath) Nasr b. Ibrahim b. Nasr b. 
Ibrahim b. Da’ud al-Maqdisi al- 
NabulusI 609, 623, 624, 631, 642, 652 
Nasr b. Muhammad b. al-Ash‘ath 388 
(Abu Ghanim) Nasr (‘Abdallah) b. Sa‘Id, 
Qarmatl commander 468 
(Abu Kamil Shibl al-dawla) Nasr b. Salih 
b. Mirdas, governor of Aleppo 592 
Nasr (b. Sayyar) b. Shabath, leader of a 
rebellion 411 

Nasr Allah b. Nizal, governor of Ramla 
585 

Nathan al-AndalusI 359 
Nathan the Babylonian 728, 741, 742, 745, 
786, 828, 860 

Nathan he-haver, Fustat 760 
Nathan (Hiba) ha-Levi, Fustat 835 
Nathan the money-changer 892 
Nathan av-bei-din b. Abraham 283, 301, 
328, 331, 338, 349, 383, 560, 749, 750, 
752, 764, 769, 772, 775, 780, 792, 795, 
808, 822, 834, 851, 852, 857, 860, 865, 
866, 869, 870-884, 886, 889, 897, 898, 
899, 911, 926, 927, 936, 937, 939, 946 
Nathan b. Isaac, a Karaite, Jerusalem 827, 
936, 940 

Nathan ha-Kohen he-haver b. Isaiah, 
Tiberias 285, 296^ 594 
Nathan b. Mevasser, see: Mawhub b. 
Mevasser 


95i 



INDEX 


Nathan ha-Kohen ha-mumhe b. Mevorakh, 
Ascalon 306, 307, 309, 342, 821 
Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevorakh, Ascalon 
262, 307, 337, 358, 906, 907, 949 
Nathan (Sahlun) b. Nehorai, father of 
Israel 376 

Nathan b. Nisan ha-Levi ha-melammed, a 
Karaite, Jerusalem (see also: 

Mevorakh b. Nathan) 848 
Nathan b. Samuel ‘the Spaniard’ 365 
Nathan ha-Kohen b. Solomon, Baniyas 
(see also: Tobiah ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli, his 
father-in-law) 301, 328 
Nathan ha-Kohen b. Solomon, Safed 327 
Nathan he-Levi he-haver b. Yeshu'a 805 
Nathan (Hiba) b. Zechariah 754 
Natil b. Qays, leader of the BanuJudham 
88, 89, 93, 94, 138 
Natronai Gaon 917, 919 
the Nawakls, a Turcoman tribe 603 
Nawe (= Nawa) 557 

Nayruz, the Persian New Year’s feast 463, 
700 

Naysabur 368, 405, 507, 537, 614, 619 
al-Naysaburi, see:Ja‘farb, Muhammad; 

Muhammad b. Muhammad 
Nazareth 2, 550, 674, 706 
ha-ndzir, see: ‘All b, Judah 
Neharde'a 777 

Nehemiah, descendant of Mar Zutra 849 
Nehemiah b. Abraham, brother of Sahlan 
154, 806, 807 

Nehemiah b. Asher, masorete 288 
Nehemiah ha-Kohen b. Kohen Sedeq, 
Gaon of Pumbedita 887 
Nehorai b. Nathan (brother of Israel) 376 
Nehorai b, Nissim 257, 265, 274, 298, 315, 
324, 330, 331, 336, 337, 340, 342, 343, 
344, 345, 346, 349, 350, 353, 354, 356, 
359, 360, 361, 363, 364, 366, 369, 
371-385, 755, 816, 820, 823, 829, 831, 
832, 833, 838, 839, 845, 864, 887, 890, 
891, 892, 897, 898, 905, 906, 911, 914, 

940 

neslie = tax 254, 591 

Nessana 36, 88, 122, 131, 135, 149, 223, 
243, 244, 275, 676 

Nestorians 333, 352, 569, 570, 661, 676, 
679, 700. 746, 757, 839, 921 
Nethanel, high priest of the Samaritans 10, 

941 

Nethanel b. Aaron, money-changer, Fustat 
(?) (see also: Solomon b. Nethanel) 
573, 831 

Nethanel b. Abraham b. David b. 

Sughmar 750 


Nethanel ha-Levi b. Halfon, Fustat 761, 
818, 869 

Nethanel b. Meshullam 776 
Nethanel ha-Levi b. Rawh, Fustat 591, 
871, 875, 879, 911 

Nethanel b. Sedaqa Sar Menuha, Fustat 
307 

Nethanel (Hibat Allah) b. Yeshu'a al- 
Maqdisl 339, 879, 905 
netwa 744, 872 
Nicaea 97, 687 

Nicephorus, patriarch of Constantinople 
709 

Nicephorus, patriarch ofjerusalem 569, 
576, 683, 699, 716, 746 
Nicephorus Phocas, commander and 
emperor 482 

Nicetas, Byzantine official 697, 701 
Nicholas (= Agathon), patriarch of 
Jerusalem 696 

Nicolaus, abbot of a monastery 19 
Nihawand 491, 920 
al-Nihawandl, see: ‘Abd al-Rahman b. 
Ishaq; Benjamin 

Nihuma b. Samuel b. Nihuma 875 
(the river) Nile 543, 564, 588, 596, 721, 
882 

al-Nill, see: Yefet ha-Levi b. Tobiah 
Nina, one of Mar Zutra’s descendants 849 
Nineveh 9 

Nisan ha-Levi ha-melammed, a Karaite, see: 

Nathan ha-Levi b. Nisan 
tiishtewan 589 
Nisibis 475 
NissI 274 

NissI b, Aaron b. Bakhtaway 927 
Nissim b. Berekhia, Qayrawan 762 
Nissim son of ‘the fifth’ 777 
Nissim b. Halfon 336, 350, 356, 359, 361, 
380 

Nissim al-nm'allim b. Jacob he-haver 

(brother of Moses he-haver) 275, 383 
Nissim b. Nehorai (see also: Nehorai b, 
Nissim) 372, 914 
Nizar b, al-Mustansir 942, 946 
Noah, bishop of Tiberias 674 
nomisma, the Byzantine gold coin 11 
Normans 723 

North Africa 235, 721, 728, 790, 810 
Nu‘aym b. Salama 151 
Nu‘aym b. Thabit 99 
Nufay‘, see Sedaqa b. Nufay‘; Solomon b. 
Saadia 

al-NuftisI, see: Isaiah NufusI 


952 



INDEX 


Nu'man (Names, chief of a tribe?) 19 
Nu'man, Abbasid commander 391 
al-Nu‘man, Fatimid cadi 561 
Nu'man b. Abu Nasr, Tiberias 285 
Nu'man b. Pinhas 29 
Nushri b. Tajil, governor 422 
nuts 337 

Obadiah, envoy of the lepers of Tiberias 
296 

Obadiah the proselyte 328, 950 
Odilus son of Rudolph, of Rouergue 717 
oil (zayt) 201, 245, 314, 331, 337, 345, 352, 
355, 372, 407, 558, 585, 815, 844, 877, 
887, 908 

olives 317, 337, 345, 603 
‘dnesh — extraordinary tax 252, 263, 589, 
812 
Ono 332 

Orestes, patriarch of Jerusalem 566, 569, 
677, 683, 699 
Origenes 661 

Orontes (which is the ‘Asl) 874, 887 

Palermo 377, 561, 776, 803, 809, 854 
Paltl’el ha-hazan b. Ephraim b. Tarason, 
Fustat 572 

Paltl’el b. Shefatya 560, 561, 809 
Pantaleon, Church personality 663 
Pantaleone, son of Maurus, of Amalfi 718 
paper 343-344, 364 
paper, Egyptian (mansuri) 344 
parnasm of the poor, Jerusalem 817 
partnerships 258, 274, 339, 344, 356, 360, 
361, 363, 365, 371, 377, 380, 385, 903 
the Paschal fire 569, 579, 608, 697, 7 01 
Pashshat b. Samuel, Tiberias 285, 854 
patiah, first step in excommunication 757 
Patrikios, of Caliph ‘Abd al-Malik’s court 
704 

Paul, Nestorian bishop in Jerusalem 679 
Paulinus, patriarch of Aquilaea 681 
pearls 354, 385, 441 

Pelagia, Nestorian nun(?) in Jerusalem 679 
Pelagius of Rome, leader of a schismatic 
movement 661 

Pepin, Charlemagne’s grandfather 395 
pepper 371, 871 

(Abu’l-Surur) Perahia b. Bunaym, son-in- 
law of Abraham b. Saadia the 
Flebronite 315 

(Abu’l-Surur) Perahia rosh ha-pereq, b. 

Mu’ammal b. Perahia (see also: Farah) 
742, 865, 879, 932, 939 
Persia, Persians 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 

19, 26, 31, 34, 48, 51, 53, 76, 94, 102, 
106, 117, 118, 121, 186, 224, 225, 236, 


241, 282, 355, 357, 370, 383, 386, 424, 
462, 492, 497, 507, 516, 577, 603, 615, 
625, 626, 643, 661, 662, 667, 668, 669, 
687, 728, 757, 762, 780, 806, 816, 824, 
826, 848, 920, 921, 928, 930, 934, 935, 
941 

pesiqa, allowance 315, 761, 799, 805, 911 
Petahia b. al-mu'allim Mahasin 949 
Peter, abbot of Mar Saba 687 
Petra (also: Reqem of Gaya) 1, 19, 88, 661 
Petrus, appointee of the Church in 
Palestine 663 

St Petrus, of Capitolias 705 
Philippicus, emperor 685 
Phocas, emperor 4, 8 
Phoenicia 1, 23, 550 

Photius, patriarch of Constantinople 694 
physicians 339 

pilgrimage, pilgrims 83, 175, 249-251, 

256, 261 281, 283, 314, 335, 353, 354, 
361, 372, 385, 388, 396, 398, 405, 464, 
484, 559, 582, 588, 590, 596, 608, 634, 
655, 695, 701, 717, 718, 119-121, 771, 
783, 793, 815, 818, 828-832, 834, 874, 
876, 878, 890, 902, 946 
Pinhas ‘head of the yeshiva’, masorete 287, 
'288,849 

Pinhas, a descendant of Mar Zutra 849 
Pinhas b. Abaye, a descendant of Mar 
Zutra 849 

Pinhas ha-Kohen b. Jacob, the poet 102, 
287 

Pinhas b. Levi, Ramla 283 
Pinhas b. Nethanel, high priest of the 
Samaritans 414, 941 
Pisa, Italy 396 

plagues 55, 74, 88, 102, 225, 572, 588, 596 
plums 337, 350 

the poor ofjerusalem 579, 596, 812, 815, 
817, 854, 856, 865, 892, 897 
Prochore, Georgian monk 680 
Procopius, Nestorian emissary to 
Jerusalem 679 

Pumbedita 488, 728, 732, 745, 762, 765, 
767, 774, 785, 789, 790, 795, 797, 807, 
809, 849, 853, 868, 881, 887, 896, 926 

qa'a 283, 875 

qabb, measure of volume 367 
Qablsa b. Du’ayb 95 
QadarTs (school of free will) 98, 389 
Qadas, see: Qedesh 
Qadisiyya 468 
qafir, sea-tar 353, 376 
qajiz, measure of volume 338, 367, 385, 
596 


953 



INDEX 


al-Qahir, caliph 470, 475 
al-Qahira 244, 315, 344, 549, 568, 725, 

778, 905, 911, 913, 918, 936, 945 
qa’id 274, 758 

al-Qa’im, Abbasid caliph 598 
al-Qa’im, Fatimid caliph 466, 547 
al-Qal‘a, Spain 821 
Qalansawa 101, 553 

Qal'at BanI Hammad, in the Maghrib 383 
Qa'qa' b. ‘Amr b. Malik 118 
qaqdli, sort of elaborate dress 339 
qarashiyya, cherries (?) 337, 376 
al-QaratlsI, see: Musa b. ‘Abdallah b. 

Musa 

Qarmatls 462-463, 467-468, 471, 481, 482, 
487, 544, 545, 546, 547, 548-557, 941 
Qartaway, see: Barakat b. Hillel 
Qaryat al-‘anab 311 

qasira, laundering, bleaching and shrinking 
of the flax 339, 357 

al-Qasim b. ‘Abd al-Rahman b. ‘Abdallah 
b. Mas‘ud 191 

al-Qasim b. Khattab, Sidon 410 
al-Qasim b, Muzahim b. Ibrahim al- 
Jandaninl, imam ofjerusalem 614 
qasor, see: Yeshu'a b. Moses ha-qasor 
qasr Ibn al-Sarh, near Ramla 553 
gasrjalut, in ‘Amman 318 
qasr Khalid 231 
qasr al-Sham‘, Fustat 750 
al-Qassam, ruler of Damascus 557, 558, 
559, 562, 775 

qdtin (permanent resident, who has to pay 
the tax) 257 

Qatr al-Nada’, the daughter of the Tulunid 
Khumarawayh 460, 809 
Qayn b. ‘Abd al-Qadir, Jerusalem 590, 

781, 862 

al-Qaynl, see: ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Qays; 
Hubaysh b. Dalaja 

Qayoma, Nestorian scribe in Jerusalem 
679 

Qayrawan 298, 345, 360, 370, 374, 376, 
380, 381, 382, 384, 549, 728, 741, 762, 
770, 790, 801, 802, 809, 820, 821, 835, 
858, 865, 871, 873, 876, 879, 881, 882, 
886, 933 

al-Qaysarani, see: Sedaqa al-Qaysarani 
qaysdriyya, a market building 328, 339 
qaz‘, type of tonsure 46 
al-QazwInl, see: ‘Abdallah b. Muhammad 
qazz, sort of silk 350 
al-Qazzaz, see: Manasseh b. Abraham; 
Saadia b. Hayyim 

Qedesh (Naphtali), Qadas 57, 122, 326, 

329 


qibla, direction turned to in prayer 81, 103, 
111, 114, 463, 771, 832 
Qinnasrin, in Syria 129, 477 
qintar, 100 rat/s 337 
qiraba, measure of volume 345 
qirdt 367, 835, 860 
qirfa, cinnamon 346 
qirfa qaranjul, clove 353 
qirmiz shadhutu 355 
al-qism wa’l-rizq 346, 365 
al-Qitaml, leader of a rebellion 421 
Qitos, see: Husayn b. Hillel 
qiyds, copyists’ ruler 342 
qubbat al-silsila 104 

al-Quda‘I, the chronicler (see also: Tahir b. 

Muhammad) 460 
al-Quds, Jerusalem 125, 830, 842 
Qulzum 95 

al-qumama (‘the refuse’, nickname of the 
Church of the Holy Sepulchre) 81, 

105, 114 

Qumis 280, 281, 333, 416, 612, 921 
Quqiyon (= Quwayq), the river of Aleppo 
300 

al-Qurashi, see: ‘Abd al-Rahman b. 

Ibrahim; Damra b. Rabfa; Jawhar b. 
Hisham; Muhammad b. al-Walld; 
Muhammad b. Sima'a 
Qus, in Egypt 871, 879 
qutn, cotton 350, 376, 380, 906 
Qurlu, Turcoman commander 610 
Qurtuba (which is Cordova) 72 
qust ( qust ), resin 346 
Qutayba, of the Band Quraysh 30 
Quwaysma, near ‘Amman 674 

rabad 847 

Rabah, governor of Gaza 552, 546 
al-Raba‘I, see: Isma‘11 b.'Abd al-Wahid 
Rabbanites 254, 263, 274, 289, 291, 294, 
305, 308, 325, 352, 589, 596, 746, 771, 
778, 783, 785, 792, 794, 803, 804, 812, 
815, 819, 824, 825, 827, 829, 833, 840, 
848, 852, 854, 863, 875, 917, 921, 922, 
927, 928, 929, 930, 931, 932, 933, 935, 
936, 937, 941, 947 

al-RabI‘ b. Matar b. Balkh, poet 180 
(Abu’l-Fadl) al-RabI‘ b. Yunus, wazlr of 
al-Mansur 387, 390 
(Umm al-Khayr) Rabi‘a, daughter of 
lsma‘11 832 

Rablb, client of Caliph al-Muqtadir’s 
mother 470 

Ra‘bub, see: Samuel b. Shemaria b, Ra‘bub 
Radhan (Jukha) 370 
al-Radl (Abu’l-‘Abbas b. al-Muqtadir), 
caliph 112, 365, 470, 475 


954 



INDEX 


Radiya, Acre 301 
raj? , superior silk 358 
Raff b. Abl’l-Layl b. ‘Ulayyan, chief of 
the Banu Kalb 335, 592 
Raff b, ‘Umayra 53 

Rafiah (Rafah) 55, 122, 274, 276, 310, 312, 

330, 577, 758, 775, 929 
Rahib, a tribesman 553 
Rainard, a monk of Jerusalem 682 
ra’is al-yahud 746, 809 

raisins 337 

(Abu’l-Hasan) Raja, of Ascalon 307 
Raja’ b. Abl’l-Dahhak 443 
Raja’ b. ‘All, Baghdad 815 
Raja’ b. Ayyub 414 

(Abu’ 1-Miqdam, or: Abu Nasr) Raja' ibn 
Hayawa (b, Handal, or: Khanzal, or: 
Jarwal) 81, 104, 153, 155, 389 
(Abu Miqdam) Raja' b. Mihran al-filastini 
389 

Raja’ b, Rawh b. Salama, great grandson 
of Rawh ibn Zinba 1 98 
Ramallah 275 

Ramla 54, 65, 74, 101, 116, 117, 121, 122, 
125, 126, 130, 141, 144, 153, 161, 167, 
168, 179, 198, 199, 254, 269, 274, 275, 
276, 282-283, 298, 311, 317, 328, 329, 

331, 332, 335, 337, 338, 339, 340, 341, 
342, 350, 352, 353, 355, 356, 357, 359, 
360, 361, 365, 367, 371, 380, 381, 383, 
385, 389, 392, 402, 403, 407, 408, 410, 
415, 422, 425-435, 440, 454, 456, 457, 
458, 461, 464-466, 469, 473, 474, 475, 
476, 479, 481, 483, 486, 487, 490, 
509-525, 539, 544, 545, 546, 548, 549, 
550, 552, 553, 555, 556, 557, 558, 560, 
562, 563, 568, 569, 575, 577, 578, 579, 
582, 583, 585, 587, 588, 589, 590, 591, 
594, 595, 598, 599, 602, 603, 604, 605, 
609, 610, 615, 624, 635-642, 648, 674, 
697, 701, 710, 711, 720, 726, 738, 741, 
744, 752, 753, 756, 762, 763, 771, 772, 
774, 775, 779, 781, 782, 783, 794, 796, 
803, 804, 815, 820, 821, 822, 823, 827, 
828, 830, 834, 836, 839, 849, 856, 857, 
858, 862, 864, 866, 869, 872, 873, 874, 
875, 876, 877, 879, 880, 881, 882, 883, 
887, 888, 889, 890, 892, 897, 901, 911, 
925, 927, 929, 930, 931, 932, 935, 936, 
937, 939, 941, 943 

al-Ramli, see: Barakat b. Hillel; 

Muhammad b. Ahmad 
ransoming of captives 611, 630, 766, 794, 
868, 946, 947, 949 

Raqqa (also: Kalne) 410, 460, 464, 481, 

562, 738, 740, 750, 774, 790, 866 


al-Raqqi, see: David b. al-Raqql 
al-Rashidi, governor 473 
Rashlq al-’AzizJ, Fatimid commander, 
brother-in-law of Ya’qub ibn Killis 
549, 559 

the Rastan river 477, 874 
rastaq (= district) 577 
rati shami 337 
Ratzeburg 725 

the ‘Rav’, see: Judah ha-Kohen b. Joseph 
b. Eleazar 
Ravenna 682 
raw hides 355 
rdwand, rhubarb 379 

Rawh, see also: Berakha b. Rawh; Malka 
daughter of Rawh; Nethanel ha-Levi 
b. Rawh 

Rawh, Ramla 881, 883 
Rawh b. Hatim, governor 393 
Rawh b. Yazid al-Sanaji 440 
Rawh ha-Kohen b. Pinhas, the Baghdadi 
cantor 591, 775, 819, 828, 862 
(Abu Zur’a) Rawh b. Zinba’ thejudhamite 
93, 94, 95, 101, 138, 149 
Rayhana, daughter of Sham'un 157 
Rayy (near Tehran) 442, 626 
Rayyisa, daughter of Mansur, Tiberias 285 
Rayyisa, daughter of Saadia b. David, 
Fustat 935 

al-RazI, see: ‘Abd al-Jabbar b. Ahmad; 

Muhammad b. Hammad 
Razin al-dawla, see: Intisar b. Yahya 
the Red Sea 66, 116 
ha-rehdva (= the Torah) 734 
Rehovot 275 

representative of the merchants (peqid 
ha-soharm; wakil al-tujjdr (See also: 
Abu’l-A’la b. Mevorakh ha-Kohen; 
Halfon ha-Levi b. Yefet; Halfon b. 
Moses; Husayn b. Yunus; Khalaf b. 
Joseph; Mevorakh b. Husayn; Siba’; 
Saadia ha-Levi b. Moses) 296, 353, 

359, 360, 580, 609, 809 
Reuven b, Isaac 777 
Rheims 682 
the Rhine 736 

ribat, murabata, garrison, or its base 73, 93, 

’ 116, 117, 174 
rice 321, 337 

Richard II, Norman count 723 

Richulf, Archbishop of Mainz 351 

the ridda 43, 44, 47, 63 

Ridwan b. Tutush b. Alp Arslan 606 

the Rif 758 

Rila’a b. Thabit 99 

Rifa’a b. Zayd 32 


955 



INDEX 


Rifq, a Fatimid commander 599 
al-RHjanl (= man of Jericho) 311 
rikkiiv, extension of the incest regulation 
by the Karaites 926, 931, 940 
Riqat, masorete 288 

riqq, ruquq, parchment 343, 344, 741, 791 
ritual slaughterers, slaughtering ( shohatim ) 
760, 768, 774, 792, 794, 805, 814,' 854, 
856, 869, 883, 885, 893, 894-895, 905, 
918 

Riyan, Fatimid commander 550 
Riyya, in Spain 235 
Robert, a monk 574 
Robert Capet 677 
Roculphus, monk ofjerusalem 681 
Rodbertus, Charlemagne’s envoy to Harun 
al-Rashld 396 

Romanus I, emperor 484, 702 
Romanus II, emperor 482 
Romanus III (Argyrus), emperor 597 
Romanus IV, emperor 603 
Rome, Romans 1, 12, 83, 106, 122, 484, 
661, 663, 681, 682, 685, 686, 715, 741, 
776 

rose-petal preserves 337, 346 
rosh kalla (also: ra’s al-kull) 359, 728, 733, 
742, 770, 796, 807, 810 
rosh ha-pereq 729, 742 
rosh ha-qahal 763 

rosh ha-qehilldt (‘head of the communities’; 
see also; Isaac ha-Kohen b. Furat; 
Mevorakh b. ‘Eli; Mevasser b. Jesse) 
779, 879 

rosh ha-seder (see also: Asa!) 328, 796, 797, 
798, 807 

Rouen (Rdwm) 111 
Rudayh b. 'Atiyya 194 
al-Rudhbadi, see: Ahmad b. ‘Ata’; Hasan 
b. $alih 

al-Rumahis ibn ‘Abd al-‘Aziz (‘Abd al- 
‘Uzza?), governor 99, 138, 139 
al-Rumayll, see: MakkI b. ‘Abd al-Salam 
Ruql al-Saqlabi, see: Waft al-Saqlabi 
ruqiiqi, maker of parchment 343 
al-Rushtabl, see: Khiba’, daughter of 
Abraham al-Hazzam 
Rusiyah 829 

Ruya, brother of Levi, from Byzantium 

823 

Ruzayq b. Hakam, Eilat, governor 446 
ruzma, parcel 356 

sa‘, measure of volume 367 
Sa‘ada b. Hiyan, governor of Ramla 548 
Saadia the teacher 262, 761 
Saadia he-haver b. Abraham b. Nathan, 
Hebron 315, 609, 899 


Saadia b. Ephraim (Sahlan b. Abraham’s 
uncle on his mother’s side) 754, 770, 
806 

Saadia (Sa‘Id) b. Hayyim (Mu'ammar) 
al-Qazzaz 914 

Saadia b. Israel al-Tustari 301, 803 
Saadia (Sa‘Id) b. Israel (Isra’il) the cantor, 
Acre 301 

Saadia b. Judah 315 

Saadia Gaon b. Joseph 273, 286, 294, 301, 
305, 346, 471, 488, 728, 733, 738, 773, 
784, 786, 787, 797, 810, 820, 849, 851, 
853, 885, 917, 923, 924, 925, 926, 928, 
933, 937 

Saadia b. Moses, Seville 828 
Saadia the physician b. Mevorakh, father 
of the negidim 810 
Saadia b. Moses, Seville 828 
Saadia ha-Levi b. Moses, representative of 
the merchants, Tiberias 296, 359 
Saadia ha-Kohen b. Moses b. Ghulayb, 
Bilbays 315 

Saadia ha-Kohen b. Nathan 811 
Saba, emissary of the patriarch of 
Jerusalem 682 

sabbatical year 102, 283, 739 
Sabgha, cadi, Gaza 929 
Sabgha b. Yeshu‘a he-hiver, Ramla 753, 
866 

Sabiq, see: Solomon the cantor 
sabir, frankincense 346 
sabun maghribi 340 
$abun shdrni 340 

Sa‘d (Sa‘Id) al-A‘sar (or: al-Aysar; or: 

Abu’l-Ma‘ashir) 460, 461 
Sa‘d al-dawla the Hamdanid, who is 
Abu’l-Ma'ali Sharif 482, 559 
Sa‘d b. AbT Waqqas 33 
Sa‘d b. Hillel, Ascalon 307 
Sa'd b. Mansur, Ascalon 307 
sadaqa, Muslim tax 43, 224, 236 
Sadaqa b. Bishr, synkellos 699 
Sadaqa b. Yusuf al-Fallahl, wazlr 598 
Sa'dun b. ’ Suhayl, Acre 534 
Sadus (b. ‘Amr), chief of the Banu Quda'a 
28, 29 

SafaqusI, see: Solomon b. Moses 
Safariyya 190 
Safed 327, 329 

(Abu’l-'Abbas) al-Saflah, caliph 36, 100, 
101, 388, 707 
saffron 346 

sahaba, the companions of the Prophet 161 
$dhib al-khabar (= in charge of intelligence), 
Ramla 568 

al-Sahira, on the Mount of Olives 836 
Sahl b. Aaron (see: ‘Allan b. Sahl) 817, 856 
Sahl b. Fudayl, Rafialj 274, 758 


956 



INDEX 


Sahl b. Hatim, Raqqa 750 
Sahl b. Israel al-Tustarl, see: Yashar b. 
Israel al-Tustari 

(Abu’I-Fadl) Sahl b. Joshua b. Sha'ya, a 
Karaite (see also: Joshua b. Sha'ya 353, 
947 

Sahl ibn Killis (brother of Ya'qub) 549 
(Abu SurrI) Sahl ha-Kohen b. Masliah (see 
also in the bibliographical index) 125, 
263, 325, 741, 786, 789, 824, 826, 829, 
832, 834, 837, 924 , 925, 930, 931, 933, 
937 

(Abu’l-Fadl) Sahl b. Salama 366 
Sahl b. Zita, see: Sedaqa b, Salih 
Sahlan b. Abraham (see also: Abraham b. 
Sahlan, his father; Nehemiah b. 
Abraham, his brother; Saadia b. 
Ephraim, his uncle) 285, 307, 591, 

751, 752, 754, 762-770, 772, 773, 774, 
780, 783, 790, 796, 798, 805-808, 809, 
817, 818, 821, 831, 834, 849, 850, 852, 
854, 857, 860, 861, 862, 868, 879, 884, 
886, 893, 927 

Sahlawayh b. Hayyim, a Karaite, Fustat 
364, 560, 780, 812 
Sahrajt 342, 596, 814, 857, 865, 868 
al-$ahrajtl, see: Hillel b. Sahl 
the Sa'Id 750 

Sa'Id the parnas, see: ‘AH ha-Levi b, Joseph 
Sa'Id b. ‘Abd al-Malik, governor ofjund 
Filastln 98, 104 

Sa'Id ibn Bitrlq, patriarch of Alexandria 
(see also in the bibliographical index) 
746 

(Balquq, Abu’l-Quq) Sa'Id b. Farjaway 
290 

Sa'Id b. Ghayyath, Fatimid supervisor 568 
Sa'Id ibn Hashim ibn Marthad al-Tabaranl, 
Tiberias 499 

Sa'Id ibn Jubayr al-Asadl 57 
Sa'Id b. Khalid b. Sa'Id 44 
Sa'Id b. Rawh b. Zinba' 94, 98 
Sa'Id Shiran, pupil of Joseph b. 

Bakhtawayh 925 
sakellarios 59, 61 

the sakhra (the rock) 81, 82, 85, 103, 107, 
'ill, 114, 115, 280, 836, 846 
Saladin (Salah al-DIn) 114, 304, 553, 678, 
839 ' 

Salam (Salama) b. Qaysar 103 
Salama ra’s al-kull (= rosh kalla) 359 
Salama b. Hiba, Jerusalem 505 
Salama b. Isma‘11 b. Jama'a al-MaqdisI 
al-Darir, Jerusalem 621 
Salama b. Joseph, Ramla, Sicily 365, 369, 
839, 870, 892 


Salama b. Mahmud, cadi, Gaza 920 
Salama b. Nahid al-Tiryaql, Jerusalem 502 
Salama b, Nissim b. Isaac 372, 830 
Salama b. Qaysar, governor 133 
(Abu Kharbaq) Salama b, Rawh, Eilat 444 
Salamiyya, in Syria 463, 466 
salawdt al-abwab fi'l-qitds 841 
Salawayh b. Banan, physician 702 
saltbiyya 700 

Salih, Abbasid commander 415 
Salih b. ‘AH, governor of Egypt 101, 387, 
388 

(Abu’I-Fadl) Salih b. Bishr b. Salima, 
Tiberias 437, 495 

(Abu Muhammad) Salih b. Jubayr al- 
Suda'I al-Jabaranl 171 
Salih b. Mirdas, chief of the Banu ‘Uqayl 
585, 586, 588, 592, 599 
(Abu’l-Khayr) Salih b. Mu'ammar 838 
Salih b. Sulayman, Abbasid commander 
394, 941 

Salih b. Yahya 419 
(Abu Shu'ayb) Salih ibn Yusuf al- 
Muqanna', Ramla 509 
Salim 410 

Saljuqs (see also: Turks) 304, 306, 307, 

315, 598, 600, 603, 606, 609, 611, 678, 
727, 909, 915, 942 

(Abu Tamlm) Salman b. Ja'far al-Fallah, 
Fatimid commander 558, 563 
Salman b. Shablb al-Ashqar 274, 758, 868 
Salmon b. Yeruhim (see also in the 

bibliographical index) 289, 484, 551, 
825, 827, 923, 933 
Salonika 566, 829, 916 
salt 347, 372 
Saluba b. Busbahra 241 
Saluq (= Seleucia) 887 
samaniyya, a kind of mats 339 
Samareitike, the quarter of the Karaites in 
Jerusalem (also: the Sela') 347, 589, 
668, 846, 847, 848, 930, 931, 936 
Samaritans 1, 2, 9, 50, 72, 81, 270, 282, 
311, 334, 410, 411, 414, 940, 941 
Samarqand 344, 642, 646 
Samarra, in Iraq 450, 522 
Samdun b. Husayn, Baniyas 660 
Samonas, bishop of Gaza 674 
Samosata 1 

Samsam al-dawla, see: Sinan b. ‘Ulayyan 
Samuel b. Abraham b. Sunbat 806 
Samuel ha-Kohen b, Avtalyon 763, 766, 
803, 805, 893 

Samuel b. Daniel b. Azariah 886, 903 
Samuel ha-Nagid b. David (the 13th 
century) 856 

Samuel b. ‘Ezrun (— Ezra) 274, 296, 854 


957 



INDEX 


Samuel b. Hofni, Gaon of Sura 298, 301, 
342, 344, 868, 887, 896, 917, 927 
Samuel ‘the third’ b. Hosha'na 83, 330, 

564, 572, 609, 761, 795, 808, 854, 857, 
871 

Samuel b. Isaac, the Spaniard 278, 828 
Samuel b. Jacob, Fustat, copyist 342 
Samuel ha-Kohen Gaon, b. Joseph Gaon b. 

‘Ezrun (?) 852, 853, 854, 870 
Samuel b. Manasseh b. Abraham al- 
Qazzaz 560 

Samuel b. Moses ha-Kohen, Damascus 560 
Samuel (Mawhub) he-haver b. Moses 
he-haver b. Elhanan, Tyre (see also: 
Elhanan b. Moses he-haver; Moses 
he-haver b. Elhanan) 296, 297, 300, 
794, 893 

Samuel ibn Naghrila, Spanish Nagid 773, 
774, 809, 822, 892 
Samuel b. Palti’el.561, 827, 844 
Samuel b. ha-Roqeah 856 
Samuel b. Saadia 853 
Samuel b, Sahl of Khurasan 301, 828 
Samuel b. Samson 846 
Samuel b. Semah the cantor al-Ladhiql 
575, 858 

Samuel b. Shelah 301 

Samuel ha-Levi b. Shemaria b. Ra'bub 296 
Samuel ibn al-Tahirt! 763 
San‘a 284, 388 

Sanhedrin (= Yeshiva) 729, 737, 742, 745, 
762, 772, 776, 784, 790, 896, 899, 900, 
915 

Saphir, Jacob 289 
al-Saqlabl, see: Waft 
Sar Shalom rosh ha-qahal, (av)-bet-din and 
aliif of the yeshiva 860 
Sar Shalom b. Joseph 311 
Saracens 19, 52, 56, 484, 574 
Sarafa, in Trans-Jordan 392 
Saragossa 681 
Sarakhs, in Khurasan 425 
Saul, grandfather of Nathan b. Abraham 
870 

sawad, administrative region (=jund) 122, 
320, 562, 577 
Sawartakln, governor 467 
Sawwar b. ‘Ammara, Ramla 199, 389 
Sayf the Samaritan, Ramla 941 
Sayf al-dawla al-Hamdani, see: ‘All b. 
Hamdan 

Sayf al-khilafa, see: Anushtakln b. 

‘Abdallah 

Sayf ibn ‘Umar 47, 63, 65, 68, 69, 72, 73, 

88 

al-Saymari, see: Abu ‘Abdallah al-Saymari 


the Sea of Galilee 61, 80, 92, 98, 120, 122, 
201, 285, 545, 557, 592, 674, 928 
Sedaqa, Acre 301 

Sedaqa al-‘Attar, see: Abraham b. Sedaqa 
Sedaqa al-Qaysaram 330 
Sedaqa Sar Menuha, see: Nethanel b. 
Sedaqa 

Sedaqa b. ‘Ayyash 382 
Sedaqa al-Bawardl b. ‘Eli al-Dimashql 823 
Sedaqa b. Menahem, Jerusalem 761, 819, 
861, 863 

Sedaqa b. Mevorakh, see: Zadok b. 
Mevorakh 

Sedaqa he-haver h. Muvhar (Mukhtar), 
Tyre, Fustat 339, 905 
Sedaqa b. Nufay' (b. Solomon b. Saadia?) 
912 

Sedaqa b. Salih b. Sahl b. Zita, Karaite 925 
Sedaqa ha-Levi ha-hazan b. Solomon 307 
Semah 893 
Semah, Ascalon 308 
Semah b. Abl Shayba, masorete 288 
(Abu’l-Faraj) Semah b. Eleazar, Jerusalem 
892, 894, 896 

Semah b. Joshua, father of Mevorakh (see 
also: Sabgha b. Joshua; Mevorakh) 

866 

Semah the nasi and head of the yeshiva b. 
Josiah 729, 773, 774, 852, 885, 919, 
920, 926, 927 

Semah ibn al-Siyara, Abu Slutum, 
masorete 288 

Sergius, bishop of Jaffa 663 
Sergius, Byzantine commander 50, 51, 52, 
54 

Sergius, Nestorian priest 921 
Sergius, patriarch of Constantinople 9, 65 
Sergius I, patriarch ofjerusalem 683, 696 
Sergius II, patriarch ofjerusalem 683, 696 
Sergius (Sarjun) b. Mansur, Damascus 58, 
269, 270, 672, 704 ' 

Serlfim (Sarafand) 392 

the settlement ban (herem ha-yishshuv) 777 

Severin, Pope 9 

Severus, founder of a sect 97 

Severus, Monophysite leader 661 

Seville 609 

Shaddad b. Aws 81, 102, 144, 158 
Shadhuna, in Spain 235, 355 
al-Shafi‘I, see: Muhammad b. Idris 
Shafi'ites 609, 623," 624, 626, 630, 631, 632, 
642, 647, 652 

Shafrir nllus (= Fustat) 761, 790, 905 
Shahrbaraz, Persian commander 44 
al-Sham (= Palestine) 1, 23, 109, 111, 123, 
292, 359, 553, 596, 835 


958 



INDEX 


al-Sham (Syria and Palestine) 1, 44, 53, 59, 
62, 63, 65, 74, 75, 88, 93, 94, 102, 

105, 114, 122, 123, 125, 141, 170, 213, 
222, 223, 225, 231, 235, 238, 240, 268, 
270, 337, 345, 386, 393, 394, 416, 417, 
467, 470, 475, 553, 558, 700, 702, 821, 
882 

al-Shama‘i, see: Ahmad b. Mahmud 
al-Shaml 274 
Shams al-din, cadi 245 
shamta, beginning of excommunication 757 
Sham‘un b. Zayd b. Khunafa, father of 
Rayhana157 

Shanas (Shanash), Byzantine commander 
59 

al-Sharabl 372 

al-Sharah, the region of Moab 122 
Sharlk b. Judayr 188 
the Sharon 275, 932 
Sha'ya 856 

Sha'ya b. Salah (= Salih) b. Azariah, 
great-grandson of Levi b. Yefet b. 

‘Ali, Karaite scribe 925 
Shayban the Tulunid 469 
al-Shaybanl, see: Ayyub b. Suwayd; 

Muhammad b. Tahir 
Shayzar 330 

Shechem, Nabulus 55, 81, 122, 125, 195, 
282, 317, 321, 365, 401, 411, 414, 465, 
555, 585, 586, 595, 624, 674, 890, 941, 
949 

ha-she’elot ha-'atiqot, versified tract on Bible 
difficulties 745, 827, 848, 853, 939 
sheep 337 

Shefila, Ramla(?) 753 
Shekhania (Sakan), grandfather of Yefet b. 
David 805 

Shelah, Ascalon 307, 947 
Shelah, cantor, Fustat 315 
Shelah he-haver b. Mevasser, Alexandria 
372, 378 

Sbelah the cantor b. Moses, Alexandria 
751, 807 

Shelah ‘the sixth’ b. Nahum 302, 899, 906 
Shelah ha-Kohen b. Zadok b. Masllah b. 

Zita, a Karaite, Tyre 925 
Shemaiah, a descendant of Mar Zufra 849 
Shemaiah Gaon 305, 793, 802, 854, 855, 
856, 860, 872, 873, 884 
(Abu’l-Faraj) Shemaiah he-haver b. 

Yeshu'a, great grandson of Shemaiah 
Gaon (brother of Solomon b. 

Yeshu’a) 305, 365, 375, 383, 759, 833, 
839, 855, 870, 884, 892 
Shemaria b. Abraham, Sepphoris 323 


Shemaria b. Elhanan (see also: Elhanan b. 
Shemaria) 278, 572, 7 95, 7 96, 7 98, 

800, 828, 854, 857, 871 
Shemaria b. Meshullam 810, 898 
(Abu’l-Wafa’) Shemaria (Haffaz) ha-Kohen 
b. Mevorakh, Ascalon 609 
shemen mejuttam 353, 811, 900 
Sheraia, the elder 792 
Sherira Gaon 34, 273, 745, 770, 788, 849, 
854, 867, 868, 881, 917 
shetut (= datiiq) 860 

Shibl b. Ma'ruf, leader of the Banu ‘Uqayl 
550, 557 

Shiites 298, 304, 389, 394, 462, 465, 466, 
477, 482, 487, 490, 516, 577, 636, 645, 
656 

the Shiloah (Siloam, Silwan) 111, 113, 680, 
838, 847 

shimmush, deed, court diary 752, 884, 896 
Shin'ar = Babylonia 786, 928, 929 
al-ShlrazI, see: ‘Abd al-Wahid b. Ahmad; 

al-Mu’ayyad fi’l-dln 
slash (fine linen; also: shush) 350, 586 
Shomron, Samaria (also: Sebastia) 55, 122, 
275, 674 

shoshatnm (the Karaites) 825, 933 

Shu‘a b. Simhun, Jerusalem, 274, 874, 879 

Shu'ayb, the prophet 21, 645 

Shuja* b. Wahb 23 

Shukll, a Turcoman commander 603 
Shumayr al-Khath‘amI, governor 132 
Shurahbil, messenger of Muhammad 36 
Shurahbil b. 'Amr 29 
Shurahbil b. Hasana 44, 53, 57, 74 
Shurayk (Shurayt) al-Kinanl 88, 148 
(Family of) Shuway‘ (see also: Shu‘a b. 
Simhun) 77 9, 7 81, 866, 873, 874, 879, 
927 

Siba‘, Ramla 359 
Siba‘ b. Faraj, Tiberias 255 
Siba‘ b. Mufarrij (= Ibn al-Kazirunl) 342 
Sicily 252, 258, 301, 345, 346, 349, 351, 
355, 356, 361, 365, 369, 377, 384, 561, 
695, 721, 723, 776, 778, 779, 803, 806, 
809, 810, 818, 828, 854 
Sidon 284, 410, 512, 560, 565, 592, 610, 
611, 648, 909, 943 
Siegfried, bishop of Mainz 726 
Siffin 88, 91, 159, 222, 389 
Sigimund, envoy of Charlemagne to 
Harun al-Rashld 396 

Sihillln (Sijillln), in the district of Ascalon 
530 

sijill 557, 589, 699, 746, 778, 783, 898 
Sijilmassa 247, 378, 813, 821, 853, 854 
al-SijilmassI, see: Joseph b. al-SijilmassI 


959 



INDEX 


Sijistan 424, 613 
Silano, of Venosa 734, 937 
silk (see also: dibaj; harir, ibrisatn; siqlatun) 
352, 355, 357, 358, 371, 377, 816, 887, 
901, 906 

Simeon II, patriarch ofjersualem 608, 683, 
699 

Simha b. Dunash, emissary of the yeshiva 
247, 813, 821 
Simon, of Byzantium 823 
Simon Siqilll 776 
Simon of Syracuse 723 
Simon b. Saul b. Israel, Toledo, Jerusalem 
822, 827, 848, 931 

Sinai 21, 58, 100, 109, 122, 577, 680, 723 
al-Sinajl, see: Muhammad b. Isma‘Il 
Sinajiya, in the neighbourhood of Ascalon 
185, 440 

(Samsam al-dawla) Sinan b. ‘Ulayyan b. 

al-Banna’ 585, 586, 592 
al-Sindl, see: ‘Abd al-Rahman 
al-Sinnabra 92, 98, 557 
Sipporl (Safuriyya, Tirsa, Sepphoris) 2, 57, 
121, 122 ,323 
siqlatun 357 

Sitt al-Dallal, wife of Shelah, Ascalon; 
daughter of ‘Ulla, nicknamed Thiqa 
al-dawla 307, 949 

Sitt al-Dar b. Hanania, wife of Abraham b. 
Isaac ha-talmid 380 

Sitt al-Husn, daughter of Abraham, Jaffa 
331 

al-sitt al-khadra (or, sittna al-khadra) 483 
Sitt al-Mulk, sister of al-Hakim 568, 569, 
576, 577 

Sitt al-Muna, daughter of Nathan, wife of 
Nehorai 372 

Sitt Muruwwa, al-kabira 372, 374 
Sitt al-Sada, daughter of Abiathar ha- 
Kohen Gaon 916 

Sittuna, daughter of Yefet, Ramla(?) 911 
Slavs 3 

snow in Jerusalem 830 

soap (sabun, asabun) 340, 350, 377, 379, 

585, 871 

So‘ar (see also: Zughar) 83, 122, 201, 311, 
315, 337, 365, 366, 377, 424, 929 
Sodom 24 

Solomon, Ascalon 308 
Solomon (Sabiq) the cantor 741, 759, 897 
Solomon ha-Kohen, ‘messiah’ of the 
Karaites, Baniyas 328 
Solomon, patriarch ofjerusalem 683, 693 
Solomon b. Abraham b. Meir al-Andalusl 
(see also: Abraham b. Meir al- 
Andalusl) 311, 365 


Solomon b. ‘Adi b. Manasseh al-Qazzaz 
560 

Solomon b. Benjamin, Ascalon 307, 821 
Solomon b. Buya'a, copyist 289, 290 
Solomon he-haver b. David 754 
Solomon b. David b. Boaz, Karaite nasi 
774, 927 

Solomon b. David al-‘ArishI, a Karaite, 
Jerusalem (see also: David b. 

Solomon) 827 

Solomon the physician b. ‘Eli, Tripoli 874 
Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon b. Elijah ha- 
Kohen Gaon 859 

Solomon ha-Kohen av-bet-din (later Gaon) 
b. Elijah ha-Kohen ‘the fourth’ (in 
Fustat, 12th century) 899, 900, 910, 
912, 914, 916 
Solomon b. Fadanq 827 
Solomon b. al-Ghallaq, Tyre 341 
Solomon b. Halfon, Ascalon 307 
Solomon the nisi b. Hezekiah b. Solomon 
b. David 948 

Solomon b. Isaac, great-grandson of Meir 
Gaon 851, 899 

Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph, Daltun 325, 
326, 342, 344 

(Abu’l-Bayan) Solomon ha-Kohen b. 
Joseph av-bet-din b. Solomon Gaon, 
Ramla, Fustat 603, 609, 811, 897, 904, 
908 

Solomon ha-Kohen Gaon b. Joseph ha- 
Kohen 248, 252, 283, 296, 305, 385, 
583, 589, 590, 742, 753, 792, 793, 802, 
803, 812, 828, 853, 855, 856, 858, 860, 
861, 863, 864, 872, 897 
Solomon the exilarch (father of Azariah) b. 

Josiah b. Zakkai 773, 885 
Solomon b. Judah, the Gaon 34, 122, 247, 
248, 251, 252, 254, 261, 263, 264, 274, 
283, 300, 307, 318, 319, 335, 336, 353, 
356, 364, 383, 560, 579, 580, 588, 590, 
620, 741, 742, 743, 746, 748, 749, 750, 
752, 753, 754, 757, 758, 759, 761, 762, 
763, 764, 765, 766, 767, 768, 769, 770, 
772, 773, 774, 776, 779, 780, 781, 782, 
783, 784, 792, 793, 795, 796, 800, 802, 
803, 804, 806, 807, 808, 809, 810, 812, 
813, 814, 815, 817, 818, 819, 823, 833, 
834, 838, 844, 845, 851, 855, 856, 857, 
858, 859-884, 885, 886, 888, 889, 890, 
893, 897, 898, 911, 912, 929, 930, 933, 
936, 937, 946 

Solomon b. Khalaf al-Barql 754, 823 
Solomon b. Marwan b. Suqayr 894 
Solomon b. Meir (see also: b. Meir) 851 
Solomon he-haver b. Meir Gaon 851 


960 



INDEX 


Solomon he-haver b. Meir rosh ha-seder, 
great-grandson of Meir Gaon 851, 

876, 881 

Solomon b. Mevasser b. Sahl he-‘AnI 764 
(Abu’I-Rida) Solomon b. Mevorakh 905 
Solomon (Sulayman) b. Mevorakh 
(Mubarak), Fustat 764 
Solomon (Salama) b. Moses b. Isaac 
Safaqusi 356, 380, 598, 830 
Solomon b. Musafir, Damascus 898 
Solomon b. Nahum al-Baradani 298 
Solomon b. Nathan 879, 898 
Solomon b. Nethanel, money-changer, 
Fustat 301, 793, 879 
Solomon b. Pashshat, Tyre, Fustat 854 
Solomon b. Rabl‘, Tyre 299 
Solomon b. Saadia, Raflail 274 
(Abu Nasr) Solomon b. Saadia b. Saghir 
(see also: Sedaqa b. Nufay 1 ) 296, 342, 
359, 364, 812, 818, 904 
(Abu Bishr) Solomon (Sulayman) b. 

Semah al-‘Attar, Ramla 283, 299, 302, 
365, 595, 753, 769, 779, 804, 862, 936 
Solomon b. Shabbat (Sunbat), one of 
Sahlan b. Abraham’s ancestors 806 
Solomon b, Shelah, Fustat 315 
Solomon b. Tobiah ‘the third’ b. Daniel, 
Ramla 855 

Solomon b. Yefet (b. David?) 805 
Solomon b. Yeshu‘5, Jerusalem (brother of 
Shemaiah b. Yeshu'a) 305, 393 
Sophronius I, patriarch ofjerusalem 8, 9, 
56, 65, 66, 67, 69, 81, 661, 662, 663, 
683, 684, 718 

Sophronius II, patriarch ofjerusalem 683, 
699, 717, 726 

ha-Sovi, see: Khalafb. Joseph; Khalaf 
ha-melammed b. Yeshu'a 
Spain (see also: al-AndalusI), Spaniards 
235, 301, 379, 382, 574, 596, 728, 752, 
773, 774, 778, 792, 810, 816, 822, 827, 
829, 886, 931, 935 

the Spaniard, see: Azhar b. Jonah; Jonah b. 
Judah; Isaac b. Samuel (see also: 
al-AndalusI) 

St Hilarion, central figure of the Georgian 
Church 680 
St Simeon 699 
Stephen, bishop of Dor 663 
(the father) Stephen, Georgian translator 
680 

Stephen, king of Hungary 717, 724 
Stephen, the ‘miracle maker’ 672, 687 
Stephen, a monk from Mar-Saba 392 
Stephen ibn Hakam, Ramla 674 
'stm 339 


Subayna, in Syria 550 
Subuktakln, a Turkish commander in the 
Fatimid army 558, 562 
Sufis 389, 634, 654, 657 
sufiaja 248, 299, 301, 364, 366, 816, 817, 
887 

Sufyan b. 'Amr al-A‘war al-Sulami 88 
Sufyan b. Sulayman 96 
al-Sufyanl, the expected redeemer of the 
Umayyads 414 
sugar 337, 350, 379, 380 
sugar-cane 337 
Sughd (the Sogdiana) 405 
Sughmar, see: Abraham b. David; Isaac b. 

David; Judah b. Moses; Labrat 
Sukman ibn Artuq 606, 607, 609 
al-Sulami, see: Sufyan b. ‘Amr 
Sulayman, Jerusalem 839 
Sulayman, smith ofjerusalem 274, 341, 

758 

Sulayman b. ‘Abd al-Malik, caliph 96, 98, 
108, 115, 116, 126, 150, 153, 193, 195, 
427, 706 

Sulayman b. Abu Ja'far (Abu Ja‘far is the 
caliph al-Mansur), governor 410 
(Abu’l-Qasim) Sulayman b. Ahmad b. 
Ayyub al-Lakhml al-Tabarani, 

Tiberias 213, 492, 493 
Sulayman b. Hisham b. ‘Abd al-Malik 98, 
99 

Sulayman b. Sa‘d 193, 269 
suit ‘anzariit 353 

(Abu’l-Fath) Sultan b. Ibrahim b. al- 
Muslim, Jerusalem 631, 632 
sumaq, 337, 339, 346, 350, 361, 380 
Sumayr 121 
Sunbat 949 

suq al-'attarin (perfumers), Jerusalem 838 
suq hamntam al-fa’r, Fustat 805 
suq al-kabir, Fustat 805 
siiq al-khadrawat (vegetables), Jerusalem 838 
suq al-qattamn (cotton traders), Jerusalem 
838” 

suq al-qumash (textiles), Jerusalem 838 
siiq Sulayman, Jerusalem 838 
suq al-yahud, Tiberias 285, 352 
Suq Mazin 310, 929 

Suqayr (see also: Marwan b. Suqayr) 894 
Sura 298, 471, 728, 735, 741, 745, 774, 

787, 868, 887, 917 
surra, pouch of coins 364 
Surur ha-Levi 875 
Surur b. Sabra, a Maghribi 894 
Susita (Susiya) 57, 122 
Sutayt, Jerusalem 854 



INDEX 


suwayqat al-yahud, Fustat 805 
sycamore fruit 337, 362 
Sykamina (= Haifa) 2, 52 
Sylvester II, Pope 682, 699 
(the pilgrim) Sylvia (also called Aetheria or 
Egeria) 676 
Synagogues: 

Acre 301 
Ascalon 907 

of the Babylonians, Damascus 775 
of the Babylonians, Fustat 750, 769, 796, 
903 

of the Babylonians, Ramla 875, 879 
of Bilbays 315 
of Caesarea 330 
of Damascus 558, 821, 909 
of Haifa 302 
of Hebron 70,315, 944 
of Jerusalem (see, also: ha-me'dra, ‘the 
cave’) 355, 372, 375, 484, 818, 832, 
839, 844-846, 865, 873 
of thejerusalemites, Fustat 289, 589, 

750, 755, 756, 767, 769, 778, 801. 804, 
805, 859, 868, 877, 880, 882, 914, 936 
of thejerusalemites, Ramla 283, 595, 

874, 875, 877, 888 
ofJubayl 573 

of the Karaites, Ramla (‘of the Prophet 
Samuel’) 936 

‘in the middle’, Ramla 283 
of al-Qahira 914 

of the Samaritans, Shechem 414, 941 
of Tiberias 284 
Syracuse, Sicily 723 

Syria, 1, 5, 19, 23, 44, 53. 58, 60, 61, 62, 

64, 66, 74, 97, 99, 102, 117, 123, 242, 
279, 298, 300, 301, 328, 335, 339, 348, 
356, 370, 410, 416, 455, 456, 460, 463, 
470, 480, 481, 482, 488, 491, 492, 519, 
545, 546, 547, 548, 550, 553, 557, 560, 
564, 566, 572, 576, 578, 592, 596, 598, 
599, 603, 610, 612, 644, 653, 701, 738, 
750, 774, 775, 776, 778, 780, 797, 799, 
800, 803, 818, 910, 913, 916 

tabaqa, upper storey 755 
al-Tabaranl, see: Abu Kathlr; Muhammad 
b. Hammad; Sulayman b. Ahmad; 
Salih b. Jubayr 
Tabaristan 357, 921 
tabashir, bamboo crystals 346 
Tabgha (= Tabha), near the Sea of Galilee 
674 

Tabflk 18, 34, 35, 36, 41, 44, 68, 201, 236, 
238, 313 
Tadmur 53, 479 


al-Taghlibl, see: Harunb. Zayd 
al-Tahhan, see: Ahmad b. ‘Amr 
(Abu’l-Tayyib) Tahir b. ‘All b. ‘Abdus, 
cadi of Tiberias 436, 494 
Tahir b, Husayn, Ramla 487 
Tahir b. Muhammad b. Salama al-Quda‘T 
al-Misrl, Jerusalem 622 
Tahirt, in North Africa 374 
Tahirtls 371, 374, 375, 380 
al-Ta’i‘, caliph 550, 809 
Ta'if, in Hijaz 64, 216, 402 
Taj al-dawla, see: Tutush 
al-Takhum 24, 41 

Takln, governor of Egypt 473, 836 
Talfita, village in the area of Mount 
Hermon 558 

Talha b. ‘Abd al-Malik, Eilat 448 
Talha b. ‘Ubaydallah 232 
al-Taliqanl, see: Muhammad b. 

Muhammad 
Tall al-Safi 553 

ha-talmid, see: Abraham b. Isaac 
Tamar, divorcee of Hanina b. Yannai 821 
(Abu Ruqiyya) Tamlm al-Darl 201, 313, 
547, 641 

(Abu Harb) Tamlm al-Mubarqa‘, leader of 
rebellion 414, 941 

Tamlm ha-Kohen b. Jacob b. Ya‘Ish 378 
Tamim al-haver b. Tobiah, Aleppo 300 
al-Tamlmi, see: ‘Abdallah b. al-Mubarak; 

Muhammad b. Ahmad 
tandsukh, transmigration of souls 463 
Tanta, in Egypt 760 

ha-Taqw! b, Isaac, a Samaritan personality 
941 

Taranto 721 

Tarasius, patriarch of Constantinople 687 
Tarasun, see: Aaron b. Ephraim b, 

Tarasun; Ephraim b. Tarasun 
tan, new, or temporary resident 257 
Tarlf b. Habis (who is Ibn Khushkhash 
al-Hilall) 134 

tarima, wooden structure 755, 894 
Tariq, governor of Damascus 599 
Tariq b. ‘Amr 93 
Tarsus, in Syria 328, 416, 482 
al-TarsusI, see: Muhammad b. Ibrahim 
tasltbih, anthropomorphism 424 
Tatai 760, 804 

al-Tawahin 434, 460, 461, 553 
tawqV 874, 882 
Tawwaz, in Persia 497 
al-TawwazI, see: Abu ‘Abdallah 
tax, taxes (see also: jizya, kharaj, neslte, 
'onesh, tan, 'ushr) 86, 88, 92, 98, 104, 
152, 153, 201, 224, 228, 231-232, 236, 


962 



INDEX 


238-264, 333, 360, 399, 410, 411, 412, 
415, 422, 456, 548, 549, 550, 553, 559, 
567, 568, 576, 585, 588, 589 , 590, 591, 
599, 601, 638, 707, 721, 728, 746, 761, 
775, 776, 777, 778, 782, 803, 804, 812, 
818, 819, 821, 823, 829, 856, 892, 905, 
917, 941 

Tayma, in the Arab peninsula 44 
(Abu Zayyan) Tayyib b. Zayyan al-Qasiti 
440 

Tehran 626 

the Temple Mount 81, 82, 85, 86, 103, 

108, 109, 111, 112, 114, 115, 117, 125, 
157, 246, 251, 256, 334, 470, 487, 505, 
508, 594, 595, 609, 629, 669, 712, 818, 
827, 831, 832, 833, 836, 837, 838, 839, 
840, 842, 844, 845, 848, 943 
textiles 339, 349, 350, 355-358, 379, 380, 
381 

Thabit, Jerusalem 366 
(Abu’l-Qasim) Thabit b. Ahmad, Ascalon 
650 

Thabit b. Mufarrij b, Daghfal b, Jarrah 585 
Thabit b. Nu‘aym al-Judhaml, 99 
Thabit b, Thabit, see: Yeshu'a b. Yakhln 
Tha’laba b, Salama, governor 138 
thawb arjishi 358 
‘asqalani 350 
‘attabt 357 
dabtqi 357 
mu'allam 357 
mulham 358 
munammaq 355 
muqarran 358 
muthaqqal 581 
tustari 350 

Thawban b. Yamrud 161, 226 
Thawr b. Yazld b. Ziyad al-Kula‘i al- 
RahbJ al-Himsi 389 
Theodora, empress 680 
Theodore Abu Qurra 672, 674, 696 
Theodore, archbishop of Egypt 677 
Theodore, bishop of Heshbon (surrogate 
patriarch) 663, 684 

Theodore, head of the monastery of the 
Studites 689 

Theodore, Nestorian leader in Jerusalem 
679 

Theodore, patriarch of Alexandria 686 
Theodore I, patriarch of Jerusalem 683, 

686, 704 

Theodore I, Pope 663 
Theodore, Tiberian deacon 674 
Theodoricus, a German count 726 
Theodorikos, or Theodore, the 

Sakellarios, Byzantine commander 
(brother of the emperor) 30, 54, 58, 59 


Theodosius, emissary of the patriarch of 
Jerusalem 682 

Theodosius, patriarch ofjerusalem 682, 
683, 686, 694, 702 

Theophanes, bishop of Mount Tabor 673 
Theophilus, emperor 689, 690 
Theophilus I, patriarch ofjerusalem 578, 
579, 683, 699, 716, 746 
Thimal b. Salih b. Mirdas, ruler of Aleppo 
599, 609, 780 

Thimal al-Kha£ajI, leader of the Banu 
‘Uqayl 480, 481 

Thinyat al-‘Uqqab, near Damascus 461 
Thiqa al-dawla, cadi 782 
Thomas, metropolitan of Tyre 694 
Thomas I, patriarch ofjerusalem 396, 681, 
683, 687, 688, 689, 714 
Thomas II, patriarch ofjerusalem 683, 698 
Thumama, daughter of Sa'd b. Mansur, 
Ascalon 307 

Tiberias (see also: Maaziah) 2, 7, 44, 58, 

76, 83, 84, 88, 92, 98, 99, 102, 121, 
122, 153, 155, 169-171, 180, 193, 212, 
213, 233, 247, 255, 256, 274, 276, 
284-297, 298, 301, 323, 324, 325, 329, 
335, 338, 339, 344, 357, 358, 359, 364, 
367, 376, 389, 399, 436-438, 465, 466, 
467-468, 471, 476, 477, 481, 487, 
491-501, 545, 547, 550, 552, 553, 557, 
558, 559, 562, 563, 564, 568, 577, 585, 
588, 591, 592, 594, 595, 600, 603, 609, 
643-644, 674, 687, 729, 730, 731, 732, 
738, 753, 762, 774, 775, 799, 804, 823, 
849, 850, 852, 854, 856, 912 
Tiberius, Byzantine emperor 4 
the Tigris 101, 298, 370, 477, 728 
tillts, a big sack; measure of volume(?) 338 
Timotheus, catholicus 757, 921 
tin 380 

tinkar, borax 353 

Tinnis (also: Hanes) 122, 311, 356, 357, 
710, 721, 746, 761, 871, 887, 902, 905, 
906, 939, 940 
tiraz, tarz 339, 358 

tiryaq, medicine for stomach disease 503 
al-Tiryaql, see: Salama b. Nahid 
al-TTzI, cadi, Jerusalem 779 
Tobiah, ‘prince of the congregation’, 
Baghdad (see also Raja’ b. ‘All) 815 
Tobiah b. Daniel he-haver (the son of 
Shemaiah's sister, see also: Aaron he- 
haver b. Tobiah; Solomon b. Tobiah) 
248, 752, 795, 855, 872, 874, 876, 883 
884, 886, 898, 937 
Tobiah b. Eleazar, writer 286 
Tobiah ha-Kohen b. ‘Eli, Baniyas, Fustat 
301, 315, 328, 357, 811, 905, 916 


963 



INDEX 


Tobiah b. Moses, karaite writer 745, 827, 
879, 930, 938, 939, 940 
tomb of the Bene Hezlr, in the Kidron 
Valley 668 

Toledo (also: Tulaytula) 46, 382, 681, 822, 
827, 931 

tomb of Jacob, son of Alphaeus 668 

tomb ofjohn the Baptist, Sebastia 674 

tomb of Oman the Jebusite 668 

tomb of Rachel 830 

tomb of St Joseph 668 

tomb of St Simeon 668 

tomb of Uriah in ‘Amman 318 

tomb of Zechariah 668, 848 

tombs of the House of David 833 

Tortosa 629 

Tower of Tancred 712 

tragacanth 350 

Trajan, emperor 23 

Trans-Jordan (see also: al-Balqa’) 23, 28, 
32, 33, 41, 47, 48, 49, 54, 57, 88, 100, 
115, 116, 122, 134, 137, 216, 223, 276, 
318-320, 336, 387, 388, 391, 392, 393, 
394, 401, 473, 480, 603, 705, 848 
the tribe of Benjamin 80 
tribes, see under: Banu 
Trier 723 
trimis 367 

Tripoli (Tarabulus) of Libya 356, 752, 828 
Tripoli (Tarabulus) of al-Sham (see also: 
fortress of Sinlm) 70, 71, 75, 118, 282, 
284, 298, 336, 337, 344, 350, 380, 381, 
389, 482, 550, 563, 564, 565, 513, 576, 
579, 609, 610, 658, 712, 775, 799, 810, 
874, 887, 899, 916 
Tshufutkaleh, Crimea 288, 290 
Tubay' b. ‘Amir al-Himyari, adopted son 
of Ka‘b al-Ahbar 81, 160 
Tughj the Ikhshid 467, 473, 487 
Tughril Beg, governor of Baghdad 598, 
603, 888 

Tujlb, quarter in Fustat 805 
TulaytulT, see: Abraham b. Nahum 
the TOlunids 434, 445-461, 467, 468, 469, 
476, 489, 509, 696, 785, 922 
Turayk, daughter of Abraham who is 
nicknamed: ibn-QurdusI 339, 868 
Turfa, sister of Samuel b. Abraham b. 
Sunbat 806 

Turks, Turcomans (see also: Saljuqs) 4, 
154, 234, 236, 274, 306, 329, 331, 386, 
422, 443, 455, 456, 460, 461, 478, 479, 
487, 500, 545, 548, 550, 553, 558, 562, 
563, 564, 585, 585, 596, 598, 599, 600, 
603-611, 624, 628, 642, 713, 780, 809, 
811, 815, 839, 857, 899, 900, 901, 903, 
907, 908, 911, 939, 942 


Turmush, appointee of Atsiz 606 
al-Turtushi, see: Muhammad b. al-Walid 
Tustar, in Persia 350, 357, 780 
Tustaris 254, 270, 305, 364, 560, 589, 590, 
591, 598, 764, 778, 7 80, 782, 803, 804, 
808, 809, 812, 817, 865, 866, 880, 882, 
917, 927, 929, 931, 932, 935, 937, 939 
tutiya, zinc 354 

(Taj al-dawla) Tutush b. Alp Arslan 606 
Tyre 57, 117, 121, 122, 258, 260, 274, 276, 
284, 296, 297, 298-300, 301, 302, 315, 
324, 327, 328, 331, 335, 336, 337, 338, 
339, 340, 341, 344, 346, 347, 348, 349, 
350, 355, 356, 358, 359, 360, 361, 362, 
363, 364, 366, 367, 371, 374, 376, 379, 
380, 381, 382, 383, 422, 465, 550, 560, 
564, 565, 566, 569, 579, 580, 591, 596, 
604, 605, 609, 610-611, 624, 654-657, 
658, 660, 694, 721, 752, 757, 772, 775, 
777, 784, 790, 791, 794, 799, 805, 812, 
814, 815, 816, 818, 819, 821, 828, 845, 
862, 864, 868, 876, 877, 884, 887, 897, 
898, 899-901, 903, 904, 908, 909-916, 
940, 943, 944, 946, 949 

‘Ubada b. Nussay 155 
(Abu’l-Walld) ‘Ubada b. al-Samit, cadi 98, 
125, 141-145, 164, 192, 225, 229 
‘Ubayd, governor 127 
‘Ubaydallah al-Mahdt, first of the Fatimid 
caliphs 464, 466 
‘Ubaydallah b. ‘All 460 
(Abu’l-'Abbas) ‘Ubaydallah b. 

Muhammad b. Nafi‘ b. Mukarram 
al-Bustl 615 

‘Ubaydallah b. Tahir b. Yahya, Ramla 
(father of Akhu Muslim) 487 
‘Ubaydallah b. Yunus, in charge of 
collecting the kharaj in Ramla 638 
Ubayy b. Ka‘b 36, 225 
Ubna 41 

‘i Id, perfumed wood, aloe 346, 353 
‘Ula ha-Levi 899 
‘Umar, leader of a rebellion 410 
‘Umar (II) ibn ‘Abd al-‘Aziz, caliph 77, 86, 
98, 115, 146, 150, 151, 152, 153, 155, 
167, 171, 190, 191, 193, 195, 196, 236, 
237, 238, 242, 269, 674, 706 
‘Umar ibn al-Khattab, caliph 17, 23, 33, 
35, 41, 45, 53',’56, 60, 63, 64, 65, 67, 
68, 69, 71, 74, 75, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, 
87, 88, 103, 114, 122, 127, 128, 130, 
140, 141, 156, 159, 174, 190, 201, 224, 
225, 227, 228, 232, 236, 238, 247, 255, 
256, 269, 270, 275, 639, 662, 815, 832, 
838 


964 



INDEX 


‘Umar b. Muhammad, governor 137 
‘Umar b. Muhammad b. Ahmad al-Wasiti 
470 

‘Umar b. Muhammad b. Zayd b. 

‘Abdallah b. ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab 
174 

‘Umar b. al-Walld, governor 126 
al-‘UmarI, see: ‘Isa b. ‘All; Muhammad b. 
‘Abd al-‘AzIz 

Umayyads 44, 45, 80, 88, 93, 95, 96, 97, 
100, 101, 102, 103, 105, 112, 114, 
115-121, 122, 126, 138, 175, 176, 178, 
179, 222, 223, 224, 230, 232, 236, 266, 
270, 276, 284, 386, 388, 389, 391, 398, 
404, 414, 417, 443, 444, 452, 454, 489 
Umm Abl Yusuf (see also: Ya'qub b. 

Isma‘11 al-AndalusI, her son) 372 
Umm al-Muqtadir 470 
Umm Sha’ul 372 
umma 239 

(Abu Khalid) ‘Uqayl b. Khalid b. ‘Uqayl, 
Eilat 176, 177 
‘Uqba b. Abl Mu'ayt 2 
Uqhuwana 74, 592, 868 
Urban II, Pope 699 

Urdunn (jund) 24, 41, 57, 69, 71, 74, 88, 

92, 93, 98, 99, 117, 119, 122, 126, 128, 
130, 138, 147, 149, 155, 182, 193, 203, 
215, 231, 235, 245, 255, 269, 284, 296, 
298, 301, 302, 321, 328, 388, 393, 411, 
414, 421, 422, 443, 454, 456, 467, 468, 
489, 654, 707, 941 

Urso, archbishop of Bari 727 

‘Urwa al-Sufyam 80 

Usama b, Zayd b. Haritha 41, 42, 46 

'ushari, Nile boat 361 

‘ushr, 259, 359 

aI-‘Utaqi, see: ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Qasim 

‘Uthman b. Abl Sawda 164 

‘Uthman ibn ‘Affan, caliph 2, 71, 88, 92, 

93, 112, 130, 175, 179, 284, 313, 390, 
454 

‘Uthman b. Muhammad b. Shadhan, cadi 
of Ramla 518 

‘Uthman b. Yefet b. Zub‘a, brother of 
Masllah 903 

‘Uwaymir (or: ‘Amr) b. Sa‘d, governor 
Uways b. ‘Amir al-Qarani 159 

Valley of the Cross 670, 680 
Venosa, Italy 734, 776, 835, 937 
Victor, son of Sergius, Nessana 36 
vows 734, 762, 818, 829 

wadi Ramad in the Golan 61 


Wadi’I-Qura 27, 29, 34, 93, 122, 400, 559, 
583, 770 

Wafi (or Ruqi) al-Saqlabl, Acre 552 
Wahb, Fustat 905 
Wahb, Raqqa 895 
Wahban, Acre 301 
wakala, power-of-attomey 822 
(Abu Sufyan) Wakl‘ b. al-Jarrah b. Malih 
al-RawasT 405 

al-Walld b. ‘Abd al-Malik, caliph 96, 104, 
105, 108, 116, 126, 162, 193, 704 
al-Walld b. Hassan 510 
al-Walld b. Jamil 200 

al-Walid b. Mu'awiya b. Marwan 99, 126, 
269 

al-Walld b. Muhammad al-Muwaqqari 
al-Balqawi 401 
al-Walld b. ‘Uqba 2, 44 
al-Walld (II) b, Yazid, caliph 98, 99, 117, 
119, 235 

walls ofjerusalem 594, 595, 601, 607, 678, 
712, 779, 838, 840, 841, 847, 848, 892 
waqf2%2, 470, 482 
Waqid b. Muhammad b. Zayd b. 

‘Abdallah b. ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab 
174 

Waqusa 61 
Warjlan 827 

al-Wasani, Damascus, writer 560 
Wasifb. Sawartakln, governor of Ramla 
'469 ' 

Wasit, in Iraq 121, 432, 509, 635, 656 
wasita, Fatimid appointee 598 
al-Wasiti, see: Khalaf b. Muhammad; 

Muhammad b. Ahmad 
al-Wasiti, Ibn al-Muwaffaq’s secretary 460 
wasma 311, 349 
wasq, measure of weight 34 
(Abu Qirdafa) Wathila b. al-Asqa‘ 185 
al-Wathiq, caliph 414, 443, 692 
al-Wathiqi, see: Muhammad b. Sulayman 
wax 347 

wayba, measure of volume 338, 367, 543 
al-Wazzan, see: Husayn b. Zahir 
Werner, envoy of the emperor Conrad II 
724 

the Western Wall 840, 841, 844, 845, 846 
wheat 315, 318, 336, 338, 372, 377, 381, 
382, 385, 393, 543, 596, 608, 812, 815, 
871, 930 

William, bishop of Strasbourg 724 
William I, count of Aquitaine 722 
William of Angouleme 724 
William, in charge of the Holy Sepulchre 
839 

William of Tripoli 672 


965 



INDEX 


Willibald, Christian traveller 284, 665, 666, 
667, 669, 670, 673, 674, 675, 706, 719 
wiqiyya (ounce) 367 
wool 361 

Wuhayd, governor of Ramla 568 
Wuhayb b. ‘Abd al-Rahman 96 
Wuhsha, a woman of Fustat 845, 903 

al-Yafunl, see: Muhammad b. ‘Abdallah 
Yahya 859 

Yahya al-‘Amman!, Jerusalem (see also: 

Khalfa al-Maghrib!) 318, 365 
Yahya, Damascus 793 
Yahya, grandfather of Ephraim b. 

Shemaria 801 
Yahya, Tiberias 285, 738 
Yahya b. ‘Abd al-Malik 478 
(Abu Zur'a) Yahya b. Ab! ‘Amr al-Sayban! 
168 

Yahya son of the physician Abraham, 
Fustat 935 

Yahya b. Bukayr, Gaza 651 
Yahya b. al-Hakam (brother of the caliph 
Marwan) 120 
Yahya b. Irmiya 276, 391 
(Abu Zakariyya’) Yahya b. ‘Isa b. ‘Abd 
al-Rahman al-Nahshali 407, 435 
Yahya b. Mu‘adh, Abbasid commander 
' 410 

Yahya (Hayyim) b. Najm (Hillel?) al- 
‘Akkawi 308 

Yahya ibn Sa‘!d, Christian chronicler (see 
also in the bibliographical index) 595 
Yahya b. al-Sa’igh, Shafi'ite cadi in 
Jerusalem 627 

Yahya b. Solomon b. Judah 762, 763, 764, 
864 

(Abu Kathlr) Yahya b. Zakariyya’ al- 
Tabaran! 286 
Yahya b. Zikrawayh 463 
Yakhin b. Nethanel rosh ha-qehillot , Fustat 
315 

Ya'la b. Sliaddad b. Aws 158 
Yamama 740 

Yaman (Yemen), Yamanls 44, 61, 64, 81, 
96, 98, 99, 131, 146, 147, 151, 159, 

160, 161, 168, 184, 192, 201, 202, 207, 
222, 354, 393, 394, 409, 414, 558, 562, 
740 

Yanis, iifflfr of Ramla and Jerusalem 424 
Yannai. the poet 287, 917 
Yannai b. Nahum al-Baradan! 298 
Ya‘qub, patriarch of Alexandria 678, 709 
(Abu’l-Faraj) Ya'qub, a Karaite 936 
Ya'qub bar Ada 661 
Ya'qub b. Siqlan 848 


Ya'qub b. Yusuf b. Ibrahim ibn Killis 246, 
270, 543, 549 , 551, 552, 553, 556, 557, 
559, 560, 561, 562, 563, 569, 577 
Yarmuk river 23, 54, 61, 62, 63, 65, 69, 

140 

the Yarqon river (see also: Abu Futrus; 

Tawahin) 460, 553 
Yarmut 54 

Yarukhtakln, Fatimid commander, son-in- 
law of Ya'qub ibn Killis 549, 569 
Yashar (Sahl) b. Hesed (Fadl) al-Tustarf, 
(grandson of the former), Karaite 
writer 609, 931, 940, 947 
Yashar (Sahl) b. Israel al-Tustari 780, 803 
Yason, a village 669 
Yavne 41, 55, 121, 941 
Yazld (II) b. ‘Abd al-Malik, caliph 87, 97, 
98, 115 

Yazld b. Abl Sufyan 44, 45, 46, 53, 54, 74, 
225 

(Abu Dahr) Yazld b. Ab! Sumayd (or: 
Sumayya), Eilat 449 

Yazld b. al-Harith b. Abl’l Nams 88, 148 
(Abu Khalid) Yazld b. Khalid b. Yazld 
al-Hamadan! 426 

Yazld b. al-Mansur, brother of the caliph 
al-Mahd! 418 

Yazld b. Mu'awiya, caliph 92, 93, 97, 126, 
134, 149, 181, 411, 941 
Yazid b. al-Muhallab 96 
Yazld b. Muhammad b. ‘Abd al-Samad 
460 

Yazld b. Salam (see also: Baha b. Yazld) 
104 

Yazld b. Sulayman b. ‘Abd al-Malik 98 
Yazld (III) b, Walld, caliph 98, 119, 216, 
235 

Yazur 598 

al-Yazuri, see: Hasan b. ‘All 
Yefet rosh ha-qahal, Fustat (father of 
Mevasser) 763, 883 

(Abu ‘Ali) Yefet (Hasan) b. Abraham 927, 
939 

Yefet the cantor b. Abraham, Jaffa 331 
Yefet b. ‘All, the Karaite, who is Abu ‘All 
al-Hasan ibn ‘All al-Basri 735, 824, 
826, 924, 925, 933, 936| 938 
Yefet b. ‘Amram ha-mumhe b. Moses, 
known as b. al-Jazfini 323 
(Abu ‘Ali Husayn) Yefet b. David b, 

Shekhania, Fustat 359, 569, 750, 756, 
763, 792, 799, 805, 813, 814, 856, 857, 
858, 868, 884, 894 
Yefet b. Eleazar, al-Mahalla 909 
Yefet (Hasan) b. Isaac 299 
Yefet (Hasan) b. Kalev (Kulayb) 306 


966 



INDEX 


Yefet b. Mawhub b. Faraj, Ramla 753 
Yefet b. Meshullam, a Karaite, Jerusalem 
347 

Yefet b. Sa‘ir, a Karaite 936 
Yefet b. Semah b. Josiah, Nasi 852 
Yefet ha-Levi b. Tobiah al-Nili, Fustat 
274, 589, 758, 763 
Yefet b. Yeshu'a, Ascalon (see also: 

Yeshu'a b. Yefet) 

Yeda'ya of Narbonne 823, 829 
Yedidyahub. Zakkai, Karaite nasi 779 
Yeh6shu‘a, poet 287 
Yehudai Gaon, grandfather of Sherira 
Gaon 343, 821, 827, 917 
yellow myrobalan 380 
yesha' rav (the ‘alama of Solomon b. Judah) 
307, 867 

yesha' rav yeqarev 383 

yesha' tov (the ‘alama ofjosiah Gaon) 856 

yesha‘ yeqarev (the ‘alama of Nathan b. 

Abraham) 301, 870, 879, 911 
yesha' yuhdsh, the ‘alama of Joseph ha- 
Kohen Gaon b. Solomon 296, 305, 
779, 803, 858, 861, 897 
the yeshiva of the diaspora 853 
the yeshiva of Palestine 264, 274, 284, 296, 
299, 301, 302, 363, 364, 373, 374, 375, 
383, 385, 572, 573, 575, 591, 598, 604, 
609, 611, 624, 128-138, 142-112, 
115-111, 779, 780, 781, 783, 784, 785, 
789, 790-807, 809, 812, 813, 814, 815, 
816, 819, 820, 823, 832, 833, 834, 837, 
838, 839, 849-869, 884, 885, 886, 887, 
890, 891, 892, 894, 895, 897, 899, 900, 
901, 902, 903, 905, 908, 909, 910, 912, 
913, 914, 915, 916, 917, 919, 922, 926, 
937, 950 

Yeshu'a, the 'alama of Daniel b. Azariah 
and his son David 885, 905, 913 
Yeshu'a (Shu'a) the Baniyasi 328 
Yeshu'a, parnds 812 
Yeshu'a ‘pride of the congregation’, 

Tripoli 899 

Yeshu'a ha-Kohen b. Abraham the 
Galilean 329, 805 

Yeshu'a ha-Kohen b. Joseph the dayyan, 
Alexandria 746, 751, 809, 860 
Yeshu'a b. Josiah b. Shemaiah he-haver 855 
(Abu’l-Faraj Furqan) Yeshu'a b. Judah, 
Karaite author, 827, 931, 936, 938, 

940 

(Abu’l-Faraj) Yeshu'a b. Judah b, ‘Usfura, 
Fustat (see also: Judah b. ‘Usfura) 598 
Yeshu'a b. Moses ha-qasor 604 
Yeshu'a ha-Kohen b. Moses b. Ghulayb, 
Hebron 315 


Yeshu'a he-haver b. Nathan, Gaza 309, 564, 
835 

Yeshu'a he-hdverb. Sabgha b. Hedweta b. 
Yahya b. Shevna (see also: Sabgha b. 
Yeshu'a he-haver) 819 
(Abu’l-Faraj) Yeshu'a b. Samuel 301, 342, 
382 

Yeshu'a b. Yakhin (Thabit), Fustat 315 
Yeshu'a b. Yefet, ‘the excellent haver’ 307 
Yeshu'a ‘the excellent judge’ b. Yefet, 
Ascalon (see also: Yefet b. Yeshu'a) 
307 

Yisho'yhav III, catholicus 333, 679 
Yohai, see: Joseph ha-Kohen b. Yohai 
Yohai, av (-bet-din), grandfather of Nathan 
b. Abraham 870 

Yohai ha-Kohen, son of the sister of Aaron 
b. Moses b. Meir 850 
Yoseb. Yose, poet 287 
Yuhanna b. Ruba, Eilat 36, 39, 313 
Yumn, governor of Gaza and Ascalon 564 
(Abu’l-Walid) Yunus b. Da’ud 350, 379 
(Abu Yazid) Yunus b. Yazid b. Abi’l- 
Najjad (or: b. Abi’l-Mukhariq) 176, 
177, 178, 403, 404 
Yusuf b, Ibrahim b. Bughamardi, 
governor 467, 468 
Yusuf b. Ibrahim b. al-Daya 702 
Yusuf b. Yarukhtakin 569 
Yusuf Asar (who is Dhu Nu’as), king of 
Himyar 730 

Zachariah, priest of Charlemagne’s court 
396 

Zacharias, patriarch ofjerusalem 7, 8 
Zadok the scribe 860 
Zadok ha-Kohen b. Abiathar Gaon 910 
Zadok ‘the third’ b. Josiah av 301, 899, 

912, 915, 946, 947 

Zadok ha-Levi b. Levi, head of the court 
of the Palestinian yeshiva 298, 301, 

591, 772, 774, 775, 778, 793, 828, 858, 
862, 863, 865, 879, 889 
Zadok b. Mevorakh b. ‘Eli, brother-in-law 
of Nathan b. Abraham 879 
Zadok b. Yahya 384 
(Abu’l-§ahba) Zafar b. al-Yaman 422 
al-Zahir, caliph 367, 569, 581, 585, 587, 

’ 589, 592, 594, 595, 597, 712, 716, 780, 
783, 797, 803 

Za'im al-Mulk, see: ddr Za‘Im al-Mulk 
al-Zajjaj, see: b. Mufawwakh 
(anba) Zakariyya’ 556 
Zakkai, father of David the exilarch 885 
Zakkai the nasi b. Azariah, brother of 
Daniel 773, 885, 896 


967 



INDEX 


Zakkai the nasi b. Yedldyahu the ndsIT19 
Zakkar b. ‘Ammar (Sicily) 809 
Zalim b. Mawhub (Marhub?), governor of 
Ramla 548, 550, 555 
Zandana in Bukhara 526 
al-Zandi, see: Hamdan b. Gharim 
Zara’if, slave-girl of Abraham b. R. Isaac 
896 

Zayd b. Haritha 29, 32, 41 
Zayd b. Muhammad b. Zayd b. ‘Abdallah 
b. ‘Umar ibn al-Khattab 174 
Zayd b. Thabit 63, 175 
Zayn b. Abl’l-Khayr ha-ger 904 
Zayn al-dawla, see: Intisar ibn Yahya 
Zayta 410, 941 

al-Zayyat, see: Hasan b. Hajjaj 
Zechariah ha-Kohen b. Kulayb, Gaza (see: 
Eleazar ha-Kohen b. Zechariah) 309 


Zeno (the Isaurian), emperor 661 
Zib (Akhziv) 337, 610 
Zikrawayh b. Mihrawayh 463, 468 
zindiq 97, 399, 575 
ziqq, jar, measure of volume 345 
Ziyad, brother of Mu'awiya 266 
Ziyad b. Abl Sawda 164 
(Abu Nasr) Ziyadat Allah b. ‘Abdallah, 
ruler of the Maghrib 464 
Zoan (= Fustat) 564, 797, 817, 864, 905, 
913 

al-Zubaydl, see: al-Mukhariq b. al-Harith 
Zughar 311, 929 

al-Zuhri, see: Muhammad b. Muslim 
zuqdq al-qanadlt, Fustat 378 
zuqaq al-mmmdn, Damascus 558 
Zutra, a descendant of Mar Zutra 849 
Zuwayla, a quarter in al-Qahira 549 


968 



Moshe Gil's history of Palestine from the Arab conquest in 634 to the 
Crusaders' conquest in 1099 is the first comprehensive survey of its kind. Based 
on an impressive array of sources including documents from the Cairo Geniza 
collection, the author examines the lives of the Jewish, Christian and Muslim 
communities of Palestine against a background of the political and military 
events of the period. This monumental study will be an essential resource for 
students and specialists of mediaeval Islamic and Jewish history and religious 
studies, and for anyone interested in the history of the Holy Land. 

‘This is a major work of scholarship ... 

Gerald Hawting, The Times Higher Education Supplement 

‘Gil shows himself a master of an enormous mass of Hebrew, Arabic, Judaeo- 
Arabic and Syriac source material, and his book is, given its bulk, clearly laid out 
and easy to read', C. Edmund Bosworth, The English Historical Review 

it may be simply stated that no subsequent research on any community in 
Palestine from 634-1099 can be done without a serious reading of this 
volume ...', Steven Bowman, Speculum 


Moshe Gil is Professor of Jewish History at Tel Aviv University. He has 
published widely on Jewish history and his publications include Documents of 
the Jewish pious foundations from the Cairo Geniza (1976) and The Tustaris, 
family and sect (1982). He was awarded the Rothschild Prize for Judaic Studies 
in 1996. 


Cover illustration: an Arabic letter from Damascus addressing communal issues 
(reproduced by kind permission of the Bodleian Library, Oxford). 


Caiv,^} ridge 

UNIVERSITY PRESS 


ISBN 0-521-59984-9 


9 78052 



599849 


























