Dear students, 

Dear colleagues 

 

The Lucerne School of Design, Film and Art considers itself a place of exchange, tolerance and diversity. We treat each other with mutual respect in order to engage in dialogue aimed at understanding and reflecting. Our «Reflection Space» was set up for this purpose. For us, open dialogue is a basic requirement for studying, researching and learning at our institution. In dealing with political and social issues, we as a university share the values adopted by swissuniversities: reliability, honesty, respect and accountability. We are not a political agent. Nevertheless, we do condemn all forms of violence and discrimination. This also applies to the Middle East. The ongoing conflict in the affects and concerns us all. We are deeply shocked by the violence that is taking place between Israel and Palestine.

 

Yesterday afternoon, an extensive exchange with several dozen students about the conflict between Palestine and Israel took place at 745 Viscosistadt. Demands were made to the Lucerne School of Design, Film and Art. Posters and a Palestinian flag were placed in and on the building. A group of staff members engaged in the dialogue.

 

Yesterday’s event in Emmenbrücke has brought the opportunity for constructive action. After a confrontational start, we succeeded in listening to each other. During this discussion various ideas were put forward as to what specific contributions we can make as a university of design, film and art. These include:  

Development a network for a new form of solidarity and cohesion to overcome agonistic positions. 
Checking ways for direct support of students and scholars also from Palestine, e.g. scholarships. 
Setting up a white board to collect more ideas for what we can do. 
Our further position, which also addresses the specific demands, is as follows: 

As an educational institution, we are a place of open dialogue. There is room for different arguments, positions, and backgrounds. From a global perspective, this puts us in a position that we must take care of. It requires trust and respect. This also includes not imposing one opinion and ideology on one another. In order to be an open place for debate, it is our responsibility to uphold democratic values.  
 

We do not want to practice censorship. Free expression must have a place at our university. There was one case during the information days last November, when a poster with a political message was removed because of its location. There are several other examples of statements being tolerated, commented and taken as a starting point for further discussions. We see ourselves as a learning organization. However, it is important to us that our university is a place, where everyone should feel safe and welcome – regardless of their identity, nationality, religious beliefs or political views. Freedom of expression must not lead to people no longer feeling safe. It is a value that we must treat responsibly.
 

We currently maintain institutional relations in the field of design, film and art with two Israeli universities: the Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design in Jerusalem and the Shenkar College in Ramat Gan. The two agreements are in place for the purpose of students and staff mobility. We are not currently aware of any institutional collaborations in research. – We wish to remain faithful to our policy of dialogue with our partner universities in Israel. Our dean will talk to the leadership of both institutions to better understand their situation. And to find out if there is a possibility of a network of students and scholars beyond agonistic positions. We do not believe that breaking off relations is the right way to deal with conflicts, as this also means that opportunities for positive influence through dialogue and cultural and artistic exchange are lost. In this context, we also refer to the statement from swissuniversities. 
 

With our new curriculum active since autumn 2022, we have been strengthening critical and decolonising topics in our teaching. But we can do more. We will set up a working group for developing this further. You will be invited.  
 

The exchange is not concluded here. For the continuation, we invite you again to the next «Reflection Space» on 3 June at 12:00 in room 492. In addition to that, we have a great interest in further developing transparent and participatory processes and structures at the Lucerne School of Design, Film and Art. Every voice should be heard.

 

We look forward to meeting you for further discussion. 

We received a number of responses from you to yesterday's email entitled "Dialogue on the Middle East".

 

We wrote in our text that "freedom of expression must not lead to people no longer feeling safe.”

 

Some of the voices that contacted us wrote that the large number of posters made them feel unsafe at our university.

 

For this reason, we will concentrate the posters on the "black board" (right next to the foyer). - This is for your information.

Over the past few days, we have received numerous emails from students and staff. We learned that they no longer feel welcome and safe at our university. We take these voices very seriously. We wish that all students and employees of the Lucerne School of Design, Film & Art take care of this place of exchange, tolerance and diversity and want to ensure that everyone can feel safe and comfortable here again. 

 

On Thursday evening, we received another email from the "studentsforpalestine" group. We take note of this e-mail and its demands as well as the research that has been carried out and we refer to our communication from last Thursday: Our next room for reflection will take place on June 3 at 12 noon (745_170). At this meeting, we want to enter into a dialogue characterized by reliability, honesty, respect and responsibility in order to discuss the questions and demands raised. - Everyone is cordially invited to attend. 